He falls silent here and you notice that the old man's eyes are milky white.
"Could this possibly be true?" Erethian's blind eyes light up with unabashed glee. "What an opportunity I have here."
"If thou dost not have the scroll, I cannot help thee in this matter."
"Very well. I shall need the scroll to give thee further information."
"Dost thou have the Scroll of Infinity amongst thy possessions?"
"I needs must touch the scroll to glean its meaning. Else I'll not be able to help thee in this matter."
"If thou bringest the scroll to me I can aid the in finding the meaning of the archaic text."
It is this curiosity which has brought me to this island from which Exodus, the spawn of Mondain and Minax, sought to rule the world.
"I would have loved to study that fascinating Gem of Immortality, but alas, I was born in too late an era."
An angry retort dies on Iolo's lips as the elderly mage lifts his hands in a gesture of peace.
I have nothing but the highest regard for the Destroyer of the Age of Darkness and Harbinger of the Age of Enlightenment.
"I believe 'twas the removal of the psyche from the Core that caused this island to sink beneath the waves."
His expression is unreadable, "The machine that thou destroyed was Exodus' means of communication with and control of the world.
When it was destroyed, his psyche could no longer retain its hold on the Dark Core.
As his idle musings begin to run toward possibly dangerous conclusions, his mouth audibly snaps shut.
It was reputedly a great item of magic. Didst thou find it so?" He cocks his head to one side as he asks the question.
Milky eyes glitter up at you like twin marbles, "Ah, yes. But thou knowest all too well about that little bauble.
After all, it was thee who smashed it into the shards which caused thee so much trouble during the regency of Lord Blackthorn.
The Ferryman of Skara Brae stands in his spectral boat, holding out his hand for any who would pay his price.
"Yes, if you pay me... I can take you across the Misty Channel."
"Wilt thou pay my price... for passage to Skara Brae?"
"I'll not cross... without proper payment."
"Dost thou wish... to return to the mainland?"
The Ferryman seems to smile beneath his hood as he motions for you to once more board his spectral boat.
"Do not taunt me... with hopes of release. I must perform my duty... until the end of eternity."
You see a tough-looking palace guard who takes his job -very- seriously.
"I am a guard."
"Terandan is my name."
"Sendala is my name."
"Tvellum is my name."
"Simrek is my name."
"No job is had by me. Food is gathered by me."
"Cheese and milk are liked by Emps, but they are hard to find. Only from humans can these foods be found."
"Now is the time for the young and the old to dig in their pockets and give up the gold. * Dost thou wish to donate a gold piece?"
As you place your hand in the furnace that is the dragon's maw, you can't help but wonder if a small gem is worth the risk.
Nevertheless, you persevere and retrieve the lovely little gem.
"As for me, I shall begone! Thou shalt never find me! Farewell, Avatar!"
"Hast thou decided if thou wilt help me?"
The Time Lord looks relieved.
"Then I have a mission for thee."
"I am known as the Time Lord."
"Thou -must- free me and we must work together in battling The Guardian. The fate of thy people depends upon it. Dost thou accept?"
"Then I have a mission for thee."
"Then thou shalt be doomed to never finish thy quest. Art thou sure? I give thee one more chance. Dost thou want to help?"
"Then I have a mission for thee."
"Its defense, as thou dost know, is an unusual Moongate."
"Oddly aloof creatures. They have made good messengers in the past."
"He is an embodiment of supreme evil. He must be stopped. He thrives on domination and control."
"It is of no use to thee now, unless thou dost want to summon me again."
"He is a mage that lives west of the forest of Yew."
"Magic must be functioning properly now, Avatar. Use it wisely."
"She is an elderly mage who lives in Moonglow."
Day 5: ...
Black Rock can be found in small quantities beneath the ground, sometimes near lodes of iron ore or lead.
Black Rock can be excavated by conventional means, but melting it down into a malleable substance is impossible, except by magic.
"Thou dost need a blacksmith to do that. I wager my dad could do it... I mean, could have... if he were still alive..."
"Thou hast received payment. Make the delivery tonight."
Once the construction is complete, store the blackrock in the hold of The Crown Jewel.
Whereby wood-builders and metal-workers may cross skills without the need for guild officiation limited by the following principles...
Day: I am still without food and whales... I seee but cannot... well hilp arrive in time!? I think but am thoughtful...
You see a tough-looking guard who takes his job -very- seriously.
"My name is not important."
"I keep villains and knaves out of Trinsic and keep a record of all who leave. Thou must have a password to leave."
"What is the password?"
"Thou dost not know the password. Sorry. The Mayor can give thee the proper password."
You see a tough-looking guard who takes his job -very- seriously.
"I am a guard."
Your mind is quickly probed, then cast aside, leaving you feeling slightly ill and filled with an irrational sense of forboding.
"Hast thou in thy possesion the book on the Stone of Castambre?"
"Hail, friend. I hope that I may assist thee in some way."
"Art thou here to aid me in healing my brother?"
"Very good. I am pleased to call thee friend."
"I am sorry, I do not join thieves."
"All right, I suppose thou hast learned thy lesson. I shall rejoin."
"Why, right now 'tis adventuring with that most courageous of all legendary heroes, the Avatar!"
"Well, between thee and me, I think that he hath aged much more than I!"
"Full of information, that chap. But he never seems to leave Britain anymore."
"Certainly. LB is always a repository of the most amazing facts, eh? Probably something to do with listening and not always talking."
"Thou must mean Shamino and Dupre."
"See? I told thee!"
"I am sure we shall find him somewhere. Last I heard, he was in Jhelom. Didst thou know he was knighted?"
"Hard to believe, is it not?"
"It's true! Lord British knighted him recently. Why he did so, I cannot imagine!"
"See? I told thee!"
"Thy best bet in finding that rascal is to look in Britain. He has a girlfriend employed as an actress at the Royal Theatre."
"It still lies between Britain and Trinsic, but it has grown further into Britain itself."
"He is a good man. The Mayor of Trinsic, he is. I have known him for years."
"Dost thou want me to wait here or dost thou want me to go home to Yew?"
"Whew. Thou didst frighten me!"
"I was waiting until thou didst ask me!"
"It seems that thou hast enough members travelling with thee already! I shall wait until someone leaves the group."
"He is just an acquaintance."
You face the boy and tell him who you are.
"The last time I heard -that- one I fell off a prehistoric creature from Eodon!"
"I have always been called Spark."
"Father was the best blacksmith in Britannia. People were always coming from everywhere to get him to make this and that."
"My mother died a long time ago. I can just barely remember her."
"I am sure thou canst find the man who killed Father!"
"Dost thou want me to repeat everything I know about the murder?"
"What dost thou want to know about?"
"All right."
"Thou shouldst try opening the chest."
"No, I did not find him. At least, not right away. But I did see something."
"All I saw of him was that the man had a hook for a right hand."
"I cannot tell one gargoyle from another. I could not identify him, except that he had no wings."
"Take me with thee! Please! I must avenge Father's death! If thou dost not take me with thee, I will follow thee anyway!"
"I told thee I am good! May I join?"
"Fine." The boy looks angry. "But I'll follow thee anyway."
"I know thou wilt find that man."
"'Tis about time thou didst ask again!"
"Well, on second thought, it looks like too big of a crowd. I do not like crowds."
"Well, should I just wait here or dost thou want me to go home to Trinsic?"
"Thou wilt not be sorry!"
"Father was the blacksmith. I cannot believe that he has been murdered! He had no enemies that I know of. Unless it was The Fellowship."
"I do not know anything about them. I never took one. Maybe thou shouldst ask the man at the Fellowship Branch. Klog."
"The Fellowship has branches all over Britannia."
"I don't know what it was about. Perhaps thou shouldst ask Klog."
"I do not remember what they look like. I did not recognize them. They were most likely some other members of The Fellowship."
"That key opened my Father's chest, did it not?"
"That looks like the key to Father's chest. I wondered where it was!"
"What key? Dost thou have the key to Father's chest? Where is it?"
"I suppose I could give it to thee if thou art going to look for those who killed my Father!"
"Father was a member of The Fellowship. I don't know why the medallion was in the chest -- he usually wore it."
"It's in the southwest corner of town."
"He was a very nice gargoyle. He helped Father a lot and did tasks in the stables. I cannot think why anyone would want to kill him!"
"I am sorry, I do not join thieves."
"All right, I suppose thou hast learned thy lesson. I shall rejoin."
Your old friend Shamino stands before you and you marvel that he has finally progressed into what some might call 'middle age'.
"But please tell me what brings thee here!"
"Well, I do not know if thou art aware, but we are having many problems with magic in general, and with the Moongates."
"Thou didst leave it when thou didst last visit Britannia. Here it is."
Shamino hands you the pocketwatch.
"Oops. Thine hands are too full to take it. Ask me about it later."
"Thou art a swine, Iolo."
"I am glad I do not look as aged as -he- does!"
"Thou dost mean Iolo and Dupre, I presume?"
"Yes, that's Iolo!"
"Surely he is around somewhere. Where didst thou last leave him?"
"I believe he is in Jhelom."
"He must be around somewhere!"
Shamino looks relieved. "I am -so- glad thou didst ask me that." He gathers his gear and prepares to follow you.
"Hmmm. I do not like big crowds. I shall wait until thy group is smaller before joining."
"Hmmm. Dost thou merely want me to wait here or dost thou want me to go home?"
"I am confounded by their inability to function properly."
"'Tis a pity that thou art marooned here."
"It does not work well. I do not understand it."
"I am sorry, I do not join thieves."
"All right, I suppose thou hast learned thy lesson. I shall rejoin."
You see the familiar face of your good friend, Dupre. While somewhat older, he still seems full of his usual casual good humor.
"Our old friends -- Iolo and Shamino."
"It would be both an honor and a pleasure to join thee on thine adventures once again."
"Hmm. Too crowded for my liking. Come back if thou shouldst diminish thy group by a member or two."
"Dost thou want me to wait here or dost thou truly want me to leave and go home?"
"The poor man has been hiding in his house and will not come out."
"Then thou hadst better join me for one later. It will give thee the chance to catch up to me."
"We should find that rascal Iolo and have him join us as well."
"Two men and a woman. Their names are Timmons, Vokes, and Syria. Respectively."
"Then it is good to see another member of our old sowing circle once again!"
"Let us go and find Shamino and make this a proper reunion!"
Sir Dupre stares at the Fellowship medallion around your neck for a long moment. "Thou must be joking," he snorts.
"Spark, the poor brave lad, is no longer with us. We should endeavor to get his body to a healer so he may be revived."
You are surprised to see your old companion Jaana, looking only slightly aged since your last visit.
"Why, I am Jaana. Thou shouldst remember me!"
"I am sorry, I must wait a while before I can heal again."
"Our old friends -- Iolo, Shamino, and Dupre. The men who conquer evil in the name of Lord British!"
"I do believe thou dost have too many members travelling in thy group. I shall wait until someone leaves and thou dost ask me again."
"Dost thou want me to wait here or should I go home?"
"I feel that the ether is flowing smoothly now. Magic is alive again!"
"Where is he? 'Twould be good to see him!"
"No offense intended, Iolo!"
"Oh, I would love to see him. I wonder where he might be."
"I miss having a drink or two with that rogue! Let's go find that knight!"
"I have not seen our liege in many years."
"You are greeted."
"My name is still Trellek."
"I am a gatherer of food."
"No job is had by me."
"All Emps are food-gatherers. Mainly fruits are sought by us."
"Fruits are pleasant-tasting, like the honey you gave us!"
"I am an Emp. Saralek is an Emp. Salamon is an Emp. You," he smiles, "are a human."
"Saralek is my bonded-one. `Wife' is what you would call her. My home is her home."
"Salamon is the wisest Emp. Humans have been met by her. -Many- things have been seen by her. She is very experienced and knowledgeable."
"Wisps are known to me," he nods. "Wisps are found in the woods. What is your concern?"
"For you to talk to wisps is still your wish? Then helping you is my goal. A whistle can be made by me."
"Correct was my bonded-one. A whistle can be made by me."
"The residence of the wisps is a stone building in a mountain in the middle of the forest."
"Here is your whistle."
"Fewer items must be carried by you to take this whistle."
"Your statement is a mystery. For me to talk to wisps is what you want?"
"Your wish is for me to travel with you?"
"My wish is that also. But that is not the wish of Saralek, my wife. Permission from her must first be gained."
You see a dashing, slender man, stylishly dressed, with a lot of flair.
"Thou dost not remember me? I am Sentri! We have gone adventuring together in the past!"
"But I would drop everything to join thy group if thou art not too encumbered."
"I do not see our old friends Iolo, Shamino, or Dupre much."
"Dost thou want me to wait here or go home?"
"My fee is 30 gold for a training session. Is this all right?"
"I am afraid I must adhere to my policy of training only during my business hours. This applies to -all- of my friends."
"Since I am a member of thy group, I shall train thee for free!"
"I miss that fellow!"
"'Twould be good to share a joke or two with him!"
"Then we should have some before someone else does!"
"Mmmm! Sounds good to me! Next time we pass a place, let us stop!"
"I want to see that no-good trouble-maker! He is a knight now, I hear! Sir Dupre indeed!"
You see Julia, a member of your party of adventurers from one of your previous visits to Britannia.
"Well... All right. But I did not like thee telling me to leave!"
"Aye! It would be my pleasure!"
"I believe thou hast enough travellers for one group."
"Art thou sure thou dost want me to leave?"
"Dost thou want me to wait here or should I go home?"
"Then I shall stay."
"'Tis a terrible thing to be happening in our town, these murders. Minoc was once a safe and quiet place."
"Well, at least safe, if not necessarily quiet. Especially with all the commotion caused by Owen and his monument."
"Owen is our local shipwright. Frankly, I think he is something of a fool."
"And it would have worked if thou hadst not put a stop to their plans."
"Frederico and Tania were killed at the Minoc sawmill in a manner most gruesome."
"Frederico was the leader of the Gypsies, and Tania was his wife. They lived outside of town. I know nothing more about them."
"Perhaps we should go find Iolo and have him join us as well."
"Perhaps we should go find Shamino and have him join us as well."
"Perhaps we should go find Sir Dupre and have him join us as well."
"And who is this fine young lad?"
"He is a cute one! And so well-mannered!"
Spark turns beet red.
You see your old companion Katrina looking only slightly older than when you saw her during your last visit.
You share a friendly laugh at your reunion.
"Ah, yes, Iolo, Shamino, and Dupre."
"Why, after last accompanying thee on thine adventures I settled down to the peaceful life of a shepherd in New Magincia."
"If thou dost have need of me I could join thy party again."
"I watch over my flock, and the townspeople as well, when they need me."
"I prefer smaller crowds, Avatar. Perhaps later."
"Dost thou want me to wait here or shall I go on home?"
"I have many friends here. When I am lonely, I speak with Alagner the Sage, Russell the shipwright, or Henry the peddler."
"He is a wise man who knows many things and tells wonderful stories. Alagner came here to retreat from the outside world. I know not why."
"Soon after Henry left carrying the locket, I saw the three strangers on the island, wandering off in the same direction."
"Iolo should be in our party adventuring with us."
"Shamino should be here with us."
"I cannot help but miss Dupre a little. I have not seen him since he was knighted."
"We need not be concerned about these bees, so long as we have a number of my trusty arrows."
"I am called Tseramed. Art thou Fellowship members? How art thou called?"
"The Avatar! This is a strange chance. Tell me Avatar, by what name art thou called?"
Thy demeanor is noble.
"I have no love for The Fellowship. We shall speak of it when I know thee better."
"Youth is hers forever."
"As I said, my woodcraft encompasses all this forest, even the caves in the mountain."
"Some have entered, never to return. Perhaps they are there still... Death is greedy, and holds a fate for those of like intent."
Into thy boots the foul concoction will seep, bringing on nausea and dizziness. The wise traveller wears swamp boots in such places.
"Citizens of a reclusive nature feel at peace there. Within the forest lie its buildings, many so grown-over as to seem a part of the wood."
"East of my dwelling the wood is thick, but a woodcrafty traveller may find the houses there."
"I also wonder. But the doings of those who travel upon it are more familiar to me. I have seen pirates land upon the northern coast."
"Perhaps thou art not as fond of the sea as I..."
"Perhaps they land to cache their booty in the forest. I have never followed them."
"Death for the greedy. Death for any who steal from the dwellers in the caves."
"Good game live also in the forest: Foxes and the like."
"Harpies! To battle! Let us slay them at once!"
"A malformed flying horror. Thou wouldst not want to meet one."
"Never sleeping, it has no mind and is composed in the main of poisonous substances. It engulfs and devours hapless animals voraciously."
"Attack it with flame! Slime has no defense against it."
"Bees such as these may be tamed with my special arrows!"
"I fashion my arrows from the stingers of giant bees. With them one may put a foe to sleep."
"Perhaps when thou art carrying less I can give them to thee."
"Dost thou want me to wait here or should I go home?"
"Speaking of caves and mountains, there are some who dwell near, or perhaps in, the cave of bees. They are hermits."
"These are the people I saw!"
"These people are the hermits I spoke of before."
"Perhaps those hermits are still living in the cave."
"This puts me in mind of a story. Wouldst thou like to hear it?"
"Perhaps another time."
"I must be mistaken. Farewell."
"I am the stables caretaker."
"I discovered poor Christopher and Inamo earlier this morning. I did not touch a thing. Made me sick, it did!"
"Nice man. He made the shoes for mine horses."
"The horse and carriage combination sells for 60 gold. Dost thou want a title?"
"Very good. Nothing like a little business transaction to take my mind off the ghastly scene in the stables."
"Oh, my. Thine hands are too full to take the title!"
"Oh. Thou dost not have enough gold to buy the title."
"Some other time, then."
"They doth lead out the back way, yes? They must be the tracks of the murderer!"~~His eyes widen a bit more.~~"Or... murderers!"
"I do not want to join them, but they seem all right."
"I do not know the man too well. I have no dealings with him."
"That be Christopher's son. Nice lad."
"Hast thou properly searched the stables?"
"What didst thou find?"
"Hmmm, a key. Perhaps if thou dost ask Christopher's son about it, he may know what it is for."
"Ask Spark about it. He may know something."
"Hmmm. Hast thou reconsidered mine offer to investigate the murder?"
"Splendid. Then thou must really be the Avatar after all!"
You see a middle-aged nobleman.
The Mayor looks you up and down, not sure if he believes Iolo or not. He looks at Iolo skeptically.
"I swear to thee, it is the Avatar!"
The mayor looks at you again as if he were studying every pore on your face. Finally, he smiles.
"Welcome, Avatar."
But just as suddenly, Finnigan's face becomes stern.
"Petre, the stables caretaker, discovered poor Christopher and Inamo early this morning."
"My name is Finnigan."
"I am the Mayor of Trinsic and have been since I arrived here three years ago."
"Then there is this murder, of course. We have temporarily closed the gates of the city and require a password to get in or out."
"Here thou art."
The mayor hesitates, then leans in to speak quietly.
"Actually, I have seen something like this before. It was about four years ago, in Britain."
"I hope thou art progressing on the murder investigation."
"Christopher's son is called Spark. Their house is in the northwest area of town."
"He is our town healer. He hath been here for years. Nice fellow."
"I am satisfied with thy report. Please carry on thine investigation, Avatar."
"Art thou ready to answer some questions concerning the investigation?"
"Oh. Well, carry on with thine investigation."
"Shall we continue thy report?"
"Oh. Well, carry on with thine investigation."
"Why, they are an extremely helpful group. Their branch office is just east of mine. Very optimistic group of people."
"He is the Fellowship branch leader. Kind man."
"He is probably at the dock right now."
"Oh, dost thou want the password now?"
"Excellent! I have no doubts now that thou art the one true Avatar!"
"I will give thee the password when thou hast given me a report on the progress of thine investigation."
You see a grumpy fellow with a bloody bandage on his head.
"I am Gilberto."
"I have the night watch at the dock gate."
"It must have occurred shortly before I was knocked out."
"Hmmm. I wonder if they jumped onto the ship! They could be all the way to Britain by now!"
"He is a good man but thou mayest not wish to stand too close to him. Thou mayest catch something."
"If thou dost want a ship, thou must get a deed from the shipwright. Thou must also have the password to leave town."
"What is it?"
"Thou dost not know the password. The Mayor can give thee the proper password."
"He takes the morning watch at the dock."
"I have not had many dealings with him."
You see an alert and no-nonsense guard.
"Johnson."
"I have the morning watch guarding the dock. I authorize the comings and goings of every ship."
"The boat left just after sunrise. It did sail to Britain, I believe. Thou canst ask Gargan the Shipwright about that."
"Yes, I am a member. Wouldst thou like to join?"
"Then thou shouldst go to see Batlin in Britain."
"'Tis thy loss."
"Good man. He is our branch leader here in Trinsic."
"If thou dost want a ship, thou must get a deed from the shipwright. Thou must also have the password to leave town."
"What is it?"
"Thou dost not know the password. I am sorry. The Mayor may give thee the proper password."
"A man with a hook? No, I saw no one all night or all morning."
"Thou canst purchase that from Gargan the Shipwright."
You see a stunningly attractive oriental woman. She is armed to the teeth.
"My name is Eiko."
"I have no job. I have a quest. My quest is shared with mine half-sister, Amanda."
"We are leaving this dungeon now that our quest is over."
"His killer deserves to die."
"Neither one of us knew that the other existed until after the death of our father."
"Then if thou hast discovered the true force that killed my father, my vengeance against Kalideth would be unjust."
"How canst thou say that? I thought that thou wert my sister? Thou art a traitor!"
"Farewell."
"My name is Klog."
"I am the Trinsic branch leader for The Fellowship. I work here with my wife Ellen."
"Why, thou shouldst know all about our little family by now!"
"She is my wife and bookkeeper for our branch."
"Christopher was a valued member of The Fellowship for some time. Unfortunately, we got into a petty argument last week."
"I did not know the gargoyle. It sounds as if he was in the wrong place at the wrong time. 'Tis a pity."
"They have gone to Fellowship Headquarters in Britain. They were here delivering Fellowship funds. Their names are Elizabeth and Abraham."
"I do not know what thou art talking about."
"All I know is that it is being built on the Isle of the Avatar."
"Christopher had expressed interest in leaving The Fellowship. Perhaps he had stored it for safekeeping."
"I do not know anything about that."
"I do not know that ship."
"I am afraid I do not know a man of that description."
You see a solemn fellow in healer's robes.
"Hello, again," Chantu says. "How may I help thee?"
"I am the Trinsic healer. I can perform a heal, a poison cure, or a resurrection on any of thy friends. Or on thee, of course."
"'Tis a sad state for Britannia when events such as these happen. Christopher was a good man. I hope that the villain is caught."
Chantu notices your medallion and his eyes widen.
You see a stern shopkeeper who might once have been a strong fighter.
"Thou hast entered my shop, so thou had best buy something."
"Who might I be addressing?"
"Hmph. My name is Dell."
"My name is Dell. Did I not say that already?"
"If thou art not going to buy anything, then get thy face out of my sight!"
"Come to my shop during business hours."
You see a gorgeous and voluptuous woman in her thirties.
"Wouldst thou like a room? Or wouldst thou like something to eat or drink? Just say so and I shall try and please thee with my delicacies."
"I shall be happy to serve thee during business hours!"
"I can think of no better place in all of Trinsic to lay thine head to rest or to nibble upon treats to satisfy thine appetite."
"We serve the finest meat, fish, and cake. Our specialty is a Silverleaf meal. If thou wouldst like to buy something, please say so!"
"I can offer thee mead, wine and ale."
"Our rooms are cheap. Only 6 gold per person per night. Want a room?"
"Oh dear. Thou art carrying too much to take the room key."
"Here is thy room key. It is good only until thou dost leave."
"Some other night, then."
"Mmmm. What a delicacy! It is the most wonderful delicacy that thou shalt ever eat! It is worth every gold piece spent."
You see a solid-looking but seemingly bored fighter.
"I am Markus the trainer."
"I am a trainer here in Trinsic," he says gruffly. "If thou dost wish to increase thy skill in combat I can help thee."
The fighter shrugs. "The town is all right." He sniffs.
"The cost to train with me is 20 gold. Too costly, right?"
"Please come to my place of business during normal daylight hours."
You see a salty old sailor who reeks of tobacco.
"I am the Trinsic shipwright. If thou wouldst like to know about a ship or a sextant, just say so."
Gargan coughs.
Gargan wipes his runny nose on his sleeve.
"Well, ye'll have to come to the shop when it is is open."
"Here ye are!"
"Well, ye'll have to come to the shop when it is open."
"I already sold thee the deed to 'The Scaly Eel'! It was the only ship I had!"
Gargan coughs loudly.
"The deed I can sell thee is for the ship 'The Scaly Eel.' It goes for 600 gold. Interested?"
"Ooooh, yuck!"
Gargan sneezes, then coughs a couple of times.
"I told thee! It was him!"
You see a young woman with a bright smile.
"I have no 'job' per se. I have devoted mine energies to helping The Fellowship. I hope to recruit new members."
"Of The Fellowship. We meet every night at the hall. Thou shouldst visit!"
"Every night at nine o'clock we have a meeting in the Fellowship hall. Thou mayest consider thyself invited to attend."
Lord British rolls his eyes. "Must we go through this formality?" He laughs, shaking his head.
"Didst thou bring thine Orb of the Moons?"
Lord British hands you his Orb of the Moons.
"Thine hands are too full to take the Orb!"
"I have not been down there in many years. Has something happened there?"
"Murder? In Trinsic?" The ruler looks concerned.~~"I have heard nothing about it. Art thou investigating it?"
"Very good. It pleases me that thou art concerned about my people."
"Ah, but perhaps thou shouldst!"
"I do not recall many details. Thou shouldst ask Patterson, the town mayor, about it. He may remember more."
"Yes, it is not far from the castle, to the southwest. It is just south of the theatre."
"He is a druid who began The Fellowship about twenty years ago. He is highly intelligent, and is a warm and gentle human being."
"A man with a hook?" The king rubs his chin.~~"No, I do not recall ever meeting a man with a hook."
"Thou must mean Iolo, Shamino, and Dupre, of course."
"I have seen our friend rarely over the years. I understand he has been spending most of his time in Trinsic."
"That rascal does not come around very often, though I understand he spends most of his time in Britain these days!"
"I have not seen that one since I knighted him. Typical -- I do the man a favor and he disappears! I heard he might be in Jhelom."
"A rather violent place, by all accounts. I have not had the pleasure of a visit in quite a while."
Lord British studies you a moment.
"Er... try talking to him."
"He is beginning to act much more normally."
"He was a brilliant and respected mage. But something happened to him in recent years. He seemed to go completely senile."
"Surely thou dost remember Cove. It is a very pleasant town to the east of Britain. Quite relaxing."
"I do not know of a 'Guardian'. Art thou sure he really exists? Thou shouldst investigate further."
"Yes, I have a spellbook stored away with the rest of the equipment."
"Thou art welcome to any of mine equipment. I keep it in a locked storeroom here in the castle. Thou wilt find the key in my study."
"I am sure thou canst find it."~~The ruler smiles slyly. "Consider it something of a game!"
"'Tis in the western end of the castle."
The shrines are meant for the use of an Avatar only, and therefore a talisman will be necessary to use one.
You see your old friend Nystul, now a decrepit old man in mage's robes. He seems lost in thought, far away.
"Why, 'tis Nystul!"
"I am Lord British's personal mage!"
"Art thou sure this man is not really the jester?"
"Anyway, as I was saying, uhm, what was I saying? Oh yes. Magic. I can still sell thee some spells or reagents if thou wouldst like."
"Dost thou wish to buy some spells?"
"Oh. Never mind, then."
"Dost thou wish to buy some reagents?"
"Oh. Never mind, then."
"Lord who? Dost thou mean that old man who sometimes sits on the throne?"
"He is the greatest ruler this land has ever known and I am proud to serve him."
You are wary of conversing with that trickster Chuckles, but decide to anyway.
"I must not say my name, lest I break the rule of The Game!"
"I was, am, and shall be the Court...Fool! I could give thee a clue if I wish, but for now my job is to play The Game."
"Art thou sure thou canst play The Game?"
"Thou must play The Game to get the clue!"
"Oops. I did give thee one!"
"Thou must play The Game if thou dost want to speak with me."
"Thou must just learn The Game and then jump in and play it!"
"Then just play it!"
"Of what thou wouldst like."
"Why dost thou want to speak of me? Canst thou not think of a thing much more fun of which to speak?"
"There is good food at the pub! As for me, I like to eat on the floor of my room!"
"Thou canst get a good meal there! But I could give thee a good -clue-!"
Batlin's eyes narrow to red slits as he peers practically through you.
"Thou hast the Cube! Thou cannot use it against -me-!"
"Art thou ready to answer questions from the Book of Fellowship?"
"Excellent, Avatar!"
The other Fellowship members cheer with pleasure.
"Very good, Avatar."
You see a rotund older gentleman, who is at once humble yet dignified. His gentle eyes exude caring for his fellow person.
The man's eyes focus on the Fellowship medallion around your neck.
"My name, good friend, is Batlin. And indeed it is truly a privilege to meet the Avatar in the flesh."
"The three values of the Triad of Inner Strength are Strive For Unity, Trust Thy Brother and Worthiness Precedes Reward."
"I have not seen my colleagues since they were last here. They are busy folk."
"But thou art already a member, Avatar! One can only join once!"
"Thou hast not completed thy tasks. Remember that Worthiness Precedes Reward. Once thou hast completed the missions, thou mayest join."
"Ah! I do hope thine hands are not too full to take the package."
"Avatar, didst thou deliver the package to Elynor of Minoc?"
"Didst thou open the package?"
"I am afraid that thou must carry out a mission for us as a test of trust if thou art to begin truly walking with The Fellowship."
Batlin's eyes open wide in surprise.
"What has happened? Hast thou lost the package?"
"Monsters! There are monsters lurking in dungeon Destard?! Well then, I do apologize for thine inconvenience."
"Surely thou canst do better than that! If thou simply dost not wish to answer my question why dost thou not say so?"
"Oh, art thou ready to join The Fellowship?"
"Until thou art ready to join, I cannot tell thee any more about the test."
You can see the creativity literally flowing in abundance from this fellow. He looks at you with interest.
"Yes, yes?" Raymundo snaps. "What dost thou want? I'm busy!"
"I am Raymundo."
"Why, I am famous throughout the land! Hast thou not heard of me?"
"We are working on a play at the moment."
"Come by the theatre during the day and watch the rehearsals for our play."
"Hmmm. Thou dost have a certain quality... hast thou ever acted on stage?"
"I thank thee. Thou hast shown thyself to be a true patron of the arts and a person of culture and refinement."
"Thine unconvincing performance gave thy game away! Thou dost not have ten gold pieces!"
"I see thou art ready? Very well. Take center stage, wouldst thou?"
Raymundo takes a deep breath and smiles.
"Ah, lovely woman. 'Tis a pity she is more interested in politics than the stage. But I must say that we get along famously!"
"Takes after his old man, I must say. He is sure to be a great actor. Or writer. Or director. Or producer."
"Well, I am really not at liberty to divulge the names of our patrons. But most of them belong to The Fellowship."
"These are people who contribute to our theatre. They come from all walks of life and have little in common besides a love of fine theatre."
"I am not a member, though."
This is a tall, skinny actor with knobby knees.
He wears a woman's wig and is dressed in drag.
The actor speaks in falsetto.
"I am Jesse and I am a star."
"People like to see tales of heroic adventures, knights in armour, beautiful princesses, wise kings, wizards, evil monsters. All that rot."
"My biggest lines are:~~"Name!"~~"Job!"~~"Bye!"
This actor has much stage presence and a booming voice.
"My real name is Stuart. My stage name is Laurence."
"I am the greatest actor who ever lived," he proclaims with absolutely no modesty. "I am playing the character 'Iolo' in the new play."
"'Tis the name of a particular hero of mine."
"Acting is the highest form of art. It allows one to step outside oneself and become another person. 'Tis like a game!"
This lovely actress is dressed in a mouse costume.
"I am Amber."
"I am an actress at the Royal Theatre. I am playing the role of Sherry the Mouse in the new play."
"'Tis a lovely space in which to perform. I have dedicated my life to acting, thou knowest."
"Raymundo himself had a hand in the design of the theatre."
"Actually, this will be my debut theatrical performance. I have been working as a barmaid waiting for my first chance to be in the theatre."
"To blazes with the Avatar!" She kisses him again. "The Avatar is the last one who will convince thee to settle down."
This is a cute toddler holding a baby doll.
"Kristy, like Nicholas, is one of our orphans. She was found in an abandoned home in Paws by one of the Great Council members."
"Tag! Playing tag!"
"She keeps saying that. I am not sure what it means. Something to do with a competition."
This toddler is full of energy and is playing hard when he sees you. He stops what he is doing.
"He says his name is Max."
"Playing tag!"
"I'm a funny boy!" Max laughs hysterically. "Makth sing too!"
"Thou funny boy, -too-!" Max laughs madly as he throws his pacifier at you. He points at it and says, "Binky!"
You see a child that has recently grown into toddlerhood.
"His name is Nicholas."
"Whee! Dia-per!"
You notice that Nicholas' diaper is wet.
"Oh, my. He's wet, is he not? Couldst thou be a dear and change him for me? I would appreciate it!"
"The diapers are there on that table. If thou wouldst just use one on Nicholas...."
Nicholas points to the diapers on the table.
"I cannot imagine where Batlin may be. He has never missed a Fellowship meeting!"
You see a working-class elderly woman who exudes sweetness.
"Oh, everyone simply calls me 'Nanna'."
"I watch over the Royal Nursery. I am the nanny of these wonderful children."
"Well, I feed them and change their diapers and read aloud all the books thou dost see lying around. Luckily, I have Sherry to help me."
"Lord British brought them from his homeland. They are very foreign to us here in Britannia, but the children enjoy them just the same."
"Sherry is a special mouse who has lived here in the castle for many, many years. She recites stories for the children."
"The children must be outside playing with Sherry now."
"The Britannian Tax Council drains us all dry. Especially the lower and middle classes."
"Thou shouldst really come to a meeting. Thou wouldst learn a lot!"
You see a healer who looks wise and honest.
"I have been looking forward to thine arrival, Avatar. Word spreads quickly. I am pleased to meet thee!"
"I am Csil the Healer, although in a past life I was known as Abrams. I became Csil when I was advanced."
"Soon I had patients on three islands. It was then that Lord British received word of my practice."
"My practice grew swiftly. I am a modest man, but I do not mind saying that I was a popular healer."
"Good. I thought so."
"No?" Csil lowers his voice. "The Fellowship."
You see a lean, young fighter with a rather dashing flair.
"My name is Zella."
"Thine arms. Thy legs. Thy fists. This is what makes 'boxing'."
"My price for training is 45 gold. Is this all right?"
"Then mayest thou find more inexpensive training elsewhere."
"Be so kind as to return during normal training hours, wouldst thou?"
"Whoa! Hey everyone! This here is the Avatar!"
Everyone in the Blue Boar laughs.
"And I'd bet thou dost need a drink, right?"
"Damn! How did she know?"
"Oh, really?" she says in mock surprise. "Why, I have always wanted to meet the Avatar!"
"I'm Lucy!"
"I run The Blue Boar. Oldest tavern in Britannia."
"If thou dost want anything to eat or drink, just say so!"
"I shall be happy to serve thee something if thou dost come to the pub during open hours!"
"Come back to the pub in the evening to hear our house band, The Avatars!"
"Our house band The Avatars is performing in the other room!"
"Oh, I so enjoy meeting men who like to go out and 'kill' things!"
"Everything I serve is delicious. I highly recommend that thou tasteth the Silverleaf dish. Worth every gold piece spent!"
"I serve Britain's finest ale and wine."
"It's made from the root of a very rare tree. Quite superb, it is!"
You see a gleeful-looking merchant with an enthusiastic voice and manner.
"Why, my name is Greg. It is good to see thee."
"Why, I run the Provisioner's Shop here in Britain. A second home to the intrepid, it is."
"I have moved my store here as a service to Lord British, who uses me exclusively to outfit all of his various expeditions. It is true!"
"I used to have my shop in Paws. But no one in Paws has the money to buy much of anything."
"A fighting man named Gorn once bought a shovel from me and he told me that it saved his life."
"Perhaps thou knowest of Gorn. He speaks with a most peculiar accent!"
"Why, now that I mention it, he was dressed a lot like thou art. Yes, he was."
"I am dreadfully sorry but the Provisioner's Shop is currently closed. Do return at noon when it shall be open once again."
"As I say, we have everything thou dost need to have a jolly splendid adventure!"
You see a handsome and flamboyant musician.
You see an attractive middle-aged woman with music in her eyes.
"I am Judith. And I already know who thou art!"
"I teach music at The Music Hall. I also fatten my purse a bit by playing with The Avatars!"
"Lord British appointed me music teacher a couple of years ago. It is a wonderful job!"
"It fulfills my life's purpose to teach others. It also gives me time away from home."
"Oh, I do not want to speak about mine home. Mine husband and I... well, we are not altogether... happy."
"They seem to have taken over our lives. They seem to have taken over our country!"
"Hast thou seen Batlin? He has not shown up for the Fellowship meeting!"
This is a bright woman who looks much younger than she actually is.
"Well! Thy reputation precedes thee! The Avatar in person! Word has spread that thou wert in Britain!"
"I spend the rest of my time working with The Fellowship."
"It has been in Britain for many, many years. It contains historical artifacts, as well as works of art."
"We have just opened a special section in which thou might be interested -- an exhibit of 'Avatar artifacts'!"
"Come to the museum when it is open!"
"There are relics from early Britannia and even from the Three Ages of Darkness -- back when Britannia was known as Sosaria."
"I want to attain a higher level of acceptance in The Fellowship. I want to hear the 'voice'. That is mine one true goal."
You see a helpful and efficient-looking woman.
"My name is Cynthia."
"I am the teller at the Mint. I am also a member of the Britannian Tax Council."
"Fill it out and return it here at the end of the year when thou dost come back to pay thy taxes."
"Thou art carrying too much. Come back and I will give thee thy paper when thou art not so greatly encumbered."
"The local Lords and Mayors all have residences that are maintained through the auspices of the Kingdom."
"Dost thou have some gold that thou wouldst like to exchange?"
"Oh, my. Thou canst not possibly carry that many gold coins. Thou must return when thou dost have more space in thy pack."
"Very well. Mayhaps another time."
"Please come to The Mint during regular daytime hours."
"I wonder where Batlin could be! 'Tis not like him to miss a meeting."
You see a nobleman in his forties who looks like either a politician or a well-dressed merchant.
"Avatar! I was just alerted of thy presence in our fair city! I have been expecting thee!"
"Hmmm. And does thy wife know thou art seeing Candice home?"
You ask if Judith knows about this.
"He was an old farmer named Brownie. Didn't have much money to put into a campaign. Even the peasants didn't support him."
"Thou shouldst consider attending one of our meetings in the evening."
"I would wager that thy life has improved as well!"
"I am obviously the most honest person in Britain! Perhaps I should move to Moonglow! Ha!"
"Her name is Judith. She's the music teacher at The Music Hall. Perhaps thou hast met her. We have a wonderful relationship."
"Why, I do not know what she is talking about! I work late, that is all!"
You see a flamboyant-looking gentleman. He is very cheerful and outgoing, greeting you with a smile and a wave.
"In a wink, in a word,~"I do greet thee, Milord."
"To greet thee, On this day,~"'Tis my pleasure, Milady."
"Or dost thou wish to be a king?~"Yonder sticks a sword in stone.~"If thou canst only pull it out~ "Thou wilt be the next upon the throne!"
"I am sorry to say~"I have called it a day.~"Come to the grounds to test thy fitness~"when I am, yea verily, open for business."
"A beggar man called Snaz will come to watch my show, ~"to steal and sell all my best jokes, mine own personal foe."
"Thine ignorance doth make me skittish,~"surely thou hast heard of wise Lord British."
"Thou dost walk with honor,~"I know thou wilt not tell,~"Of dignity's stains I do not bother,~"My concerns are none save for Nell."
"I am sorry to say~"I have called it a day.~"Come to the grounds at daybreak~"when the puppets are, yea verily, up and awake."
"Hast thou seen Batlin? Where is he? He needs to lead our meeting!"
You see a man whose wrinkled face forms a caricature of grumpiness.
"I am Figg."
"I am the caretaker of the Royal Orchards here in Britain."
"My responsibilities include caring for the trees, watching over the pickers at harvest time and protecting the Royal Orchard from thieves."
"Yes, Weston is now living in our local prison. If thou dost not believe me, thou canst go there and see for thyself!"
"I do not recall, exactly. Something about his impoverished wife and family starving to death in Paws or some load of rubbish."
"Yes, I do consider myself to be a more than passable judge of character. And dost thou know how I became so?"
"Oh, then art thou not the clever one!"
"Then I shall tell thee! I am a member of The Fellowship!"
"I would give thee an apple to show thee my sincerity, but it seems thou art too encumbered."
"But enough of these desperate accusations from a known criminal."
"I can do thee a favor as well. Wouldst thou like to buy one of these beautiful apples for the merest pittance of five gold coins?"
Figg takes an apple from a nearby basket. After polishing it slightly on his shirt, he hands it to you.
"Thou cannot take thine apple! Thou art carrying too much!"
"Ah, I knew thou wert a good 'un."
You see a sour-faced innkeeper who looks at you as if all of his problems were your fault.
"My name is James."
"I am the proprietor of the inn."
"Maybe solving people's problems is an easy task for other innkeepers, but, not only am I bad at it, I have mine own problems as well."
"When one is an innkeeper one must run around all day long. If anyone wants anything thou art the one who must take care of it for them!"
"I spend so much time running around that I have gotten a bad foot."
"Already I can sense she is worried about our marriage. I know that there is something wrong between us."
"Thou art carrying too much to take the room key!"
"Here is thy room key. It is only good until thou leavest the inn."
This young, lovely tavern wench is sexy and sweet.
"Jeanette, at thy service!"
"If there is anything thou wouldst like, please say so! And, er, I shall give thee a discount if thou dost buy from me!"
"I work during the day and evening hours. Thou shouldst come by the pub then and we shall talk more!"
"Lucy is a good cook. I recommend everything. Especially Silverleaf."
"Wonderful dish. Try it!"
"Thou dost look like thou dost need a good drink!"
You point out to Jeanette that Charles is a servant.
You see an attractive woman dressed in armour and carrying a small arsenal of weapons with her.
"My name is Amanda."
"Mine half-sister and I have no job at this time. We are journeying to seek inner peace, now that our quest has been aborted."
"Mine half-sister and I have no job but to serve our quest."
"We are on the trail of our father's murderer."
You see a fighter with intense eyes and a serious disposition.
"I am Denby."
"My fee for training is 75 gold. Does this meet with the approval of thy purse strings?"
"Please return during daylight hours if thou dost wish to train."
You see a friendly-looking farmer who waves at you as you approach.
"My name is Fred."
"I sell meats here at the Farmer's Market in Britain."
"They are the tastiest meats that thou canst buy. Do thyself a favor and try some."
"It is run by a man named Morfin, a very successful merchant from Buccaneer's Den."
"Morfin is an unusual character. If I did not know any better I would say he was involved with a number of shady business activities."
"Thou must return when the Farmer's Market is open."
"Wouldst thou like to buy some meats?"
"Come back when thou art hungry and we shall serve thee then."
You see a sturdy-looking farmer's wife. She gives you a hospitable smile before returning to her chores.
"Mine husband Fred and I run the Farmer's Market."
"Farmer Mack's chickens lay plenty of eggs. It is a good thing the people here have such healthy appetites!"
"Brownie is a good man. I do hope he runs for the mayorship again. If he does thou must be sure to vote for him."
"The market is now closed. Thou must return when we are open for business."
"I am sure we have something here that will be to thy liking."
"Perhaps another time then."
You see a very clean-looking, portly young man who waves at you frantically.
"My given name is Wilhelm, although no one calls me that. I prefer to be addressed as Willy. Thank thee very much."
"Hast thou had a chance to sample any of my bread yet?"
"Ah, then thou dost agree it is the sweetest, dost thou not?"
"Ha! Thou dost see, then? Everyone agrees! That should be proof enough!"
"Thou dost not?! Why, do not be ridiculous! Of course thou dost!"
Dejectedly Willy looks down at the loaf of bread he is carrying. He sniffs at it twice and tosses it out of sight.
"Please come to the bakery when it is open in daytime hours and thou shalt sample some!"
"Yes, many people tell me that. Now thou dost say it, too. If thou dost say so, then it must be true!"
He gives you a long puzzled look. After a moment he takes one of his loaves of bread and swats you over the head with it.
"Actually, there is a very good reason why I am a baker."
"If thou wert a person of truly refined taste, thou wouldst buy some!"
"I am afraid the bakery is closed. Please come back during normal business hours."
"Excellent! Thou canst start work immediately! I shall pay thee 5 gold for every five loaves of bread thou dost make. All right?"
"Very well. But I warn thee that employment is hard to obtain in these times!"
"'Tis a pity thou art unavailable. Thou dost look like one who doth know their way around a kitchen."
"I would be happy to talk with thee about employment at my shoppe during normal business hours."
"I cannot imagine where Batlin is. I am worried about him..."
You see a woman who oozes partially sincere friendliness.
"My name is Gaye."
"I oversee the clothier's here in Britain when I am not pursuing the teachings of The Fellowship."
"I am so sorry, the clothier's shop is closed. Please return during our regular business hours. We are open from nine until six every day."
"Do not tell me! Raymundo sent thee to get an Avatar costume! They cost thirty gold coins. Dost thou want one?"
"Oh. Thou canst not carry this with what thou art already carrying. Mayhaps thou couldst dispose of something and return for the costume."
"'Tis strange! I thought for certain that thou wert the theatrical type!"
"Wouldst thou like to buy some clothing today?"
"We have many nice clothes to choose from."
"Thou mayest look around for thyself. If thou dost change thy mind be sure to let me know."
"We fight for virtues, far and wide, ~And we cause the damsel's sigh."
"We are the Av-atars! ~We are the Av-atars! ~We are the Aaaa-Vaaa-Taaars!"
You see a young, wiry teen.
"My name is Coop."
"If there is anything thou dost want in the way of bows and arrows, please say so!"
"Thou must come by the shoppe when it is open!"
"My group is called... well, it is called 'The Avatars'. I hope that does not offend thee."
"We sell all kinds of bows, along with arrows and bolts. If thou dost wish to buy something, please say so!"
"Now where could that Batlin be? I suppose we shall have to have the meeting without him!"
You see a shrewd-looking man who smiles as if he has just seen his next customer.
"Why, here in Britain I sell the best armour and weapons that money can buy. In my spare time, I do deeds for The Fellowship."
"Another time, then."
"I sell a complete line of armour and weapons."
"Which wouldst thou care to inspect?"
"Please come to the shop when it is open."
"I see that thou art a member of The Fellowship!"
"I was never sufficiently forward or aggressive enough to be successful as a merchant but The Fellowship changed all that for me."
You see a pleasant-looking young peasant woman.
"My name is Diane."
"My job is to oversee the stables here in Britain and sell thee a horse and carriage if thou dost want one."
"Britain is such a grand city, but it can be somewhat disconcerting if thou dost not know anyone. Fortunately, I know many people here."
"Very good. Here is thy title."
"Oh, my. Thine hands are too full to take the title!"
"Oh. Thou dost not have enough gold to buy the title."
"Some other time, then."
"I have many friends in Britannia. Among them are Greg, James, Brownie and Mack."
"One word of warning about Mack. Do not let him start talking about the sky. Other than that he is perfectly fine, I can assure thee."
Before you stands an old sailing man whose determined face appears to have weathered many a storm.
"I be Clint."
"If thou art in need of a ship I hold the deed to a fine one. Thou wilt also need a sextant to help steer her true."
"The deed to the ship 'The Beast' costs eight hundred gold pieces. Dost thou wish to purchase her?"
"I would give thee thy deed but thou art carrying too much to take it from me!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold to buy a ship!"
"If thou dost need a ship be sure to come back here."
"A sextant costs one hundred gold pieces. Does thou wish to buy one?"
"Here is thy sextant. She shall steer thee true, to be sure."
"I would give thee thy sextant, but thou art carrying too much to take it from me."
"Thou dost not have enough money to buy a sextant!"
"If thou shouldst ever need a sextant be sure to come back."
"As I have told thee before, the Crown Jewel has not been here in a long time."
"Where oh where is Batlin? He is late for the meeting!"
You see a friendly face looking back at you.
"My name is Gordon."
"I sell fish and chips from my wagon."
He hands you a plate.
"They are indeed the best fish and chips in all of Britannia."
"Thou art carrying too many things to take thy fish and chips from me!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold to get any fish and chips. Sorry!"
"Come back again when thou art hungry and I am sure thou shalt change thy mind."
"Thou dost know-- the bloke who wears a crown and acts like a king."
"I am glad to see that thou art a member. Will I see thee at the next meeting?"
"Then I shall see thee at nine o'clock sharp!"
"I wish to win some money at Buccaneer's Den. It is a pirate resort and they have a fabulous House of Games there."
"It is said they have several games of chance there! Gold can be won wagering on the outcome of a race of fine stallions."
"I cannot imagine where Batlin is. He never misses Fellowship meeting!"
You see a man whose boyish face is set with scrutinizing eyes that look as if they have seen much.
"My name is Sean."
"When not tending to Fellowship affairs, I am a jeweller here in Britain. If thou dost wish to buy something, say so!"
"The jeweller's shop is currently closed for business. Come back later!"
"Dost thou have a gem for sale?"
"I will pay thee 30 gold coins per gem. Is that price agreeable?"
"Dost thou think me a fool?! This little blue bauble is worthless!"
"Thou dost have no gems! Thou art a liar! I will do no business with thee!"
"I see that thou has one gem."
"Here is thy payment."
"Thou art carrying too much to take thy payment!"
"It seems we have little left to discuss then."
"If thou dost have no gems for sale then do not even waste my time by mentioning it!"
"Even thou mayest join The Fellowship and I can tell thee more about it."
"I can tell thee about The Fellowship's philosophy if thou dost wish."
"Thou art really interested in hearing more?"
"I thought I was wasting my breath on thee."
"Wouldst thou like to buy something?"
"Then please browse if thou dost like."
"Please come to the shop during normal business hours."
You see a farmer who, despite showing considerable wear from hard work, appears energetic, cheerful and friendly.
"I am Brownie."
"If thou art not with The Fellowship thou art against them. I think they saw me as a potential enemy that had to be stopped."
"Patterson does little to hide his secret. If thou dost keep an eye on him thou wilt surely learn of it sooner or later."
"I like him. He even voted for me. But to tell thee the truth about Mack, he is a lunatic."
"I raise pumpkins. But I am in a bind at the moment and need some help."
"How nice! A helper! Please, feel free to start work at any time!"
"Perhaps some other time, then."
"Thou shouldst simply go to the north end of the field and bring back as many pumpkins as thou can carry!"
You see a farmer with wild eyes widened in excitement.
"I am Mack."
"I am a farmer, though most folks just call me a lunatic."
"On my farm I raise chickens and grow vegetables. If thou dost need work, talk to me!"
"They are big mean ugly liontigers! Or is that tigerlions? They are ferocious and they want to eat us!"
"Go and look behind my farm in the middle of the field. Take a look for thyself and thou shalt see my proof."
"I told thee I was not a looney! Didst thou see the proof?"
"Did I not tell thee that I am no loonie? Still, my story of how I did come across this thing is beyond belief."
"I have been looking every night for another sign of those things but I have not seen any since that last time I told thee about it."
"It resembled a bird, but it was not a bird!"
"In other words, it looked like it might eat me!"
"I am quite certain that was it, or something like that. Anyway the tigerlion itself proved to be quite delicious."
"Ask me again if thou dost change thy mind."
"I thank thee for thy decency and consideration."
You see a filthy beggar who flashes you a grin as though you were his best friend in the whole world.
"I am called Snaz."
"I have no job for I am a beggar. For a gold coin I shall tell thee a joke."
"Dost thou wish to hear one?"
"All right, here is one..."
"For a gold coin I will tell thee another. Dost thou wish to hear it?"
"I see I have reached the limits of thy sense of humor."
"Thou art more destitute than I! If I tell thee any more jokes now thou mayest steal mine act!"
"For a gold coin I will tell thee another. Dost thou wish to hear it?"
"Very well. If thou didst not get the first two there is no good reason for me to continue now."
"For a gold coin I will tell thee another. Dost thou wish to hear it?"
"Thou art wise. Thou shouldst save thy gold to pay a healer to cure that ache in thy side."
"Now thou art playing a joke on me. Thou art broke!"
"All of the mages have gone daft or mad! What other proper response is there in a world that is so terrifically funny?!"
"Thou art a brave Avatar! Dost thou wish to hear another?"
"Aha! Not as brave as I thought!"
"Thou mayest be laughing but surely thy purse is not, for it is empty."
"I have amused thee so far! Wouldst thou like to hear another? It is a joke about gold!"
"Thank thee very much! Now, goodbye!"
"Dost thou get it? Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! If not, it would be my pleasure to repeat it."
"Wouldst thou like to hear the gold joke again?"
"Now listen carefully..."
"Oh, I am so sorry. I cannot tell thee the joke again for thou art out of money."
"I can see thou art so poor that thou cannot even afford a sense of humor!"
"Oh, it is a pity that thou dost not wish to hear it! It is the funniest one yet and my personal favorite!"
You see a cute-looking woman who beams with a huge smile when she notices you looking at her.
"I suppose I have no job, but is that really so bad? I am a member of The Fellowship and I talk to people about them all day long."
"Dost thou know what The Fellowship is?"
"Oh, I think thou dost not really know!"
You see your former companion and friend, Geoffrey, Captain of the Guard.
"He is quite looney. If thou dost ask me, I believe all the mages in the land are afflicted. Take a look and find out for thyself."
"He is much better now!"
You see an impressive winged gargoyle with a stately demeanor.
"To be known as Wislem."
"To make sure the gargoyle race is heard in the castle. To have been a long road to acceptance and integration into Britannian society."
"To know you are reliable."
"If thou hast not had the chance yet, do look around and meet them. They are most wonderful and amusing."
"Want to give me some?"
"Well! I thought thou wert my friend!"
"But thou hast not got any cheese!"
"Too bad! If thou dost find any, please keep me in mind!"
"Dost thou want to hear the story? It is called 'Hubert's Hair-Raising Adventure'."
"Some other time, then!"
This is an elderly woman who epitomizes 'grandmotherly'.
"All my brothers and sisters called me 'Boots' when I was a baby, and it hath remained my name ever since."
"Why, I am Lord British's personal cook! I prepare meals for the entire castle."
"Just go to the dining room at breakfast or supper time and mine husband Bennie will serve thee!"
"This meal is usually whatever meat or game or fish Lord British requests, accompanied by several additional courses and a fine dessert."
"Good, I will be awaiting thy return!"
"Oh dear. Well, I know thou art busy. Some other time, then."
"Splendid! Let's see, we agreed on 5 gold per portion, if I remember correctly."
You see an elderly man with good humor and a warm smile.
"All my friends call me Bennie."
"I am the Head Servant at the castle. My job consists of keeping the other servants in line and serving the meals."
"Wouldst thou like to order a meal?"
"Return tomorrow and thou canst have another free meal."
"Thou art carrying too much to take the beef and pastry!"
"Oh. Well, thou must return when thou art hungry."
"Come to the dining room during breakfast or dinner and I will be most honored to serve thee!"
You see a thoroughly disheartened young man who is miserably languishing behind bars.
"I am Weston."
"I have none so long as I am left to rot here in this prison."
"He gives baskets of fruit free to The Fellowship without Lord British's consent, I am quite certain."
"Mine only regrets are that I did not try to steal something bigger and that I did not get away with it."
"Paws is a town where thou mayest feel the icy grip of poverty about thine heart."
"Oh, that reminds me it is nearly time for my meal break! The trout is supposed to be delicious today at the Farmer's Market."
"Wouldst thou speak with Lord British about me? I would bet that he is completely unaware of my case! Please! Wilt thou speak with him?"
"Oh, I thank thee, Avatar! My fate and the fates of my wife and daughter are in thine hands!"
This is a lovely, earthy woman with a warm smile.
"Word has spread quickly of thine arrival, Avatar! Welcome!"
"I am Miranda."
"I serve on the Great Council. Today we are working on a bill of law. When I am not here in the castle, I am kept busy with a young child."
Miranda smiles. "Yes, my son's name is Max.
"Art thou travelling to Cove?"
"Wonderful! Here is the bill. Please bring it back to me when it is signed. And we thank thee."
"Thine hands are too full to take the bill!"
"Oh. All right. We know that thou art very busy. We shall find another way to deliver the bill. Thank thee anyway."
"Thou wilt not be travelling to Cove at all? Well, all right then. Never mind."
"Didst thou have Lord Heather sign the bill?"
"Excellent! Let me see it."
"It looks in order! We thank thee, Avatar!"
"Wait, where is it? Thou dost not have it. I hope thou hast not lost it. Thou shouldst go and find it. 'Tis an important document!"
"Wait! Where is it? Thou dost not have it. I hope thou hast not lost it. Thou shouldst go and find it. 'Tis an important document!"
"But thou hast not had the bill signed! Please do so, as soon as possible, if thou wouldst."
"Oh. Well, the next time thou art in Cove, perhaps thou wilt find time to see him."
A winged gargoyle looks at you with interest and obvious intelligence.
"To welcome thee to Britain, Avatar!"
"To be called Inwisloklem."
"To mean `interpreter' in your language."
"To desire a world where humans and gargoyles could live together in peace as equals in Britannian society."
"To be called The Fellowship."
"To be dedicated to promoting good will and trust in the land. To be thinking of joining the group soon!"
"To be on holiday at the moment. To have only Miranda and myself present to enact this new law."
"To tell you to ask Miranda about it, for she knows more than I."
"Oh. Hello. I am Nell."
"I thought so! I have seen thy portrait before. And I had heard that thou wouldst be visiting! I'm Nell."
"I told thee my name is Nell."
"I am a chambermaid. I am responsible for keeping the castle tidy. Just a servant girl, really."
"It is very large. Keeps me very busy. Thou wouldst not believe how dusty it gets."
You see a young peasant with a tray of wine glasses.
"Hello, Avatar."
"I am Charles."
"I am a servant in Lord British's castle. I serve as a gentleman's gentleman, among other things. Right now I am serving wine."
"Thou wilt encounter them. My mother cooks in the kitchen. My prudish sister is the chambermaid."
"She does not love me, I know. She would rather marry a rich man. I have not a chance."
You tell Charles what Jeanette said.
You tell Charles what Nell revealed in confidence.
Your conscience rests easy, knowing that you resisted the temptation to carry tales.
"Wouldst thou like some wine?"
"Oops. Thou art carrying too much. Ask me again when thou dost not have thine hands full!"
"Some other time, then."
This elderly mage looks older and more senile than when you last saw him.
"Who art thou?" Rudyom asks. "Oh -- I remember."
"That I know. My name is Rudyom."
"I am a powerful mage! Magic is my milieu! I can sell thee spells or reagents."
"I do not understand what is wrong. My magic does not work so well anymore."
"The ether is flowing freely! Magic is with us once again!"
"The big blue carpet. 'Tis a flying carpet. It does not work like it should."
Rudyom looks around and scratches his head.
"Dost thou wish to buy some spells?"
"Oh. Never mind, then."
"Dost thou wish to buy some reagents?"
"Oh. Never mind, then."
"I used it to record mine experiments with blackrock and the blackrock transmuter."
This is an attractive young woman who seems sad.
Emotion immediately grips your heart to see such a beautiful young woman seem so sad.
She looks up as you introduce yourself.
"I am Nastassia."
"Many of the shrines have fallen into disuse or have been overgrown to the point of being lost. It is sad."
"I... I'd rather not say. Please do not ask."
"Thou dost know the reasons."
"My father died in the Great Forest there. Some wild animal or something killed him. Art thou perhaps travelling to Yew?"
"Bless thee! I shall be waiting here for thee."
"I know we have a strong kinship now. We shall be like sisters."
Unexpectedly, Nastassia pulls your head down to hers and kisses you on the mouth.
"No? Well, let me know if thou art in the future. Perhaps thou couldst help me."
You kiss Nastassia and she moans.
The two of you rush into each other's arms and your mouths meet. You had forgotten how good her lips felt against yours.
You kiss Nastassia and she moans.
You startle a fighter who seems lost in thought.
His dog seemed to be meditating as well.
"I am Rayburt."
"I charge 60 gold for a session, but thou wilt benefit greatly. Is this agreeable?"
"It is not the first time I have been accused of being too expensive."
"Please come to my studio during business hours if thou wishest to train."
This regal gentleman epitomizes a well-liked politician.
"Hello! Lord British sent word that thou might come to visit us. Welcome to Cove, Avatar!"
"I am Lord Heather. And I recognize thee, Avatar!"
"I am the Town Mayor of Cove, home of the Shrine of Compassion."
"Sounds like bad theatre to me!"
"Except for Nastassia."
"But thou dost not have a bill of law!"
"I thought I already signed that bill!"
You see a friendly woman in her thirties.
"I am Pamela!"
"I am the Innkeeper at the Out'n'Inn."
"If thou wouldst like a room, just say so!"
"Please come by if thou wouldst like to rest thy weary feet for the night!"
"The room is quite inexpensive. Only 8 gold per person. Want one?"
"Thou art carrying too much to take the room key!"
"Here is thy room key. It is good only until thou leavest."
"Thou dost not have enough gold, eh? Too bad."
"Another night, then."
"Oooh, he is such a wonderful man, dost thou not think? He is so intense and serious. Handsome, too! Oh, and I like Regal as well."
"As far as dogs go, he is handsome, too!"
This beautiful, earthy woman in her forties gives you a friendly smile.
"I am the owner and manager of The Emerald."
"If I can help thee with food or drink, please say so. I have never had a dissatisfied customer."
"Please come to the pub when it is open and I shall be happy to serve thee!"
"The Emerald is pleased to serve thee the finest cuisine this side of Britain. Thou mightest wish to try the special -- Silverleaf."
"The Emerald serves only the best wine and ale. I cannot recommend the water, however. Thanks to Lock Lake."
"The stench has made our water taste terrible. That mining company must cease pouring their sewage into what was once a fine lake!"
This flamboyant bard exudes a festive aura.
"I have sung about thee in many a song! And here thou art in the flesh! I recognized thee immediately." The man bows. "Welcome, Avatar!"
"I am De Maria, the Bard."
"I spin tales and sing songs!"
"I also know a good deal about the folks in Cove."
"What if I combine all three? Shall I sing a song which is a tale about the people of Cove?"
"Very well, then!"
"'Tis thy choice... and thy mistake!"
"Ah, dear Nastassia. Wouldst thou like to hear her tale?"
"Very well, then!"
"Oh. I thought thou wert curious. Never mind then."
You see a woman whose cultured manner is tinged with a suggestion of arrogance.
"Perhaps thou wouldst wish to join our Fellowship?"
"Ah-- but thou dost know all of this."
She hands you 50 gold coins.
"Thou hast just missed them! They were here collecting funds. They have moved on to Paws to visit our Shelter there."
"I have not seen Elizabeth or Abraham since they were here last."
"Many ships come and go in our busy port. I do not know of any one specific ship. Perhaps thou shouldst ask Owen."
You tell Elynor that it was found at the murder site. Elynor registers surprise.
"I cannot imagine why it was there. Someone must be trying to implicate The Fellowship!"
She thinks a moment.
"They have set up camp southeast of town. Near the sawmill. That is suspicious, dost thou not think?"
You see an old man whose domineering disposition matches the hardened physique of his aged body.
"My name is Gregor."
"I am in charge of the Minoc branch of the Britannian Mining Company."
"Our town is a major center of trade in Britannia, and it is a place of social change."
"The Britannian Mining Company produces a wide variety of minerals that are essential to the continuation of progress in Britannia."
"Here in Minoc we have one of the largest mining operations in Britannia, a sawmill, an inn, the Artist's Guild, and a shipwright."
"I may have already mentioned Owen, the shipwright. He builds the finest ships that have ever set sail."
"I helped to organize things with Mayor Burnside to get the monument built."
"It will be huge and made of the finest ore from our mine."
"It is terrible! The gypsies Frederico and Tania have been found murdered in William's sawmill!"
"Leave us in peace, damn thee! Elynor and I are in love and we wish to be alone together! Find thy cheap excitations elsewhere!"
You see a young, bewitching gypsy woman with wise, soul-peering eyes.
"Very vell."
"I knew it vould happen. I varned Frederico. He vouldn't listen."
"He vas my brother-in-law. His death makes me very sad."
"She vas Frederico's vife, but thou dost know that already, no? She vas a good voman."
"There are many, many others like Sasha who have been led astray. For them, I see no future."
"Thou art a member thyself."
"The Fellowship."
Margareta sees your medallion and raises her eyes.
"Thou vilt soon be enlightened about their true nature."
"Thou shalt learn more about them in due time."
"Jergi is mine husband, ov course. Now he has the veight ov guiding the gypsy race in these troubled times."
You see a young gypsy lad. He is wearing a Fellowship medallion. His eyes look down and his expression is one of extreme sorrow.
"My name is Sasha."
"I am too young to have a job. I am a gypsy as my parents vere gypsies. I am also a member of The Fellowship."
"It happened at the sawmill in Minoc."
"For the past veek I have been avay from home doing vork for The Fellowship."
"She is very vise and knows many things but vhen I asked her if I should go back to The Fellowship or stay with them she did not answer me."
"He vas my father's brother. He is a good man and vise. Now he is the leader of our people. He vill do what is right for us."
"Perhaps thou shouldst talk vith him."
You see a handsome craftsman with an intense, piercing gaze.
"Surely thou hast heard about the murders of Frederico and Tania?!"
"He befriended Seara and stayed the night with us once. He seemed like a nice young man, but misguided."
"Dost thou think of us as thine enemy?"
"Then get out of my sight! I do not wish to speak with thee!"
"Then I shall give thee the benefit of the doubt for now. But know that I do what I must to protect our Guild."
You see a cheerful woman with bright eyes and blonde hair.
"Hello, my name is Xanthia."
"I am a member of the Artist's Guild in Minoc. I make and sell candelabras."
"That is what Gladstone says. Thou hadst better ask him about it."
You see a man whose long hours of difficult, smouldering work have frozen his face into a rigid expression with eyes like hot coals.
"I am Zorn."
"I am the blacksmith of Minoc."
"I make weapons and armour."
"All of the weapons and armour I sell are made by mine own hand. They would serve thee well."
"Perhaps we could speak more of these things another time. Say, perhaps during the business hours of my shop?"
"The smithy is currently closed for outside business. Thou shalt have to return some other time."
"I have an assortment of very lethal weapons to show thee."
"The smithy is currently closed for outside business. Thou shalt have to return some other time."
"Thou mayest buy fine armour from me."
"This noise over Owen's monument, for instance. People ought to tend to their own business and let others handle their own, foolish or not."
"He is our town shipwright. He is a man who has an exceedingly high opinion of himself."
"No one in this town ever really hated the gypsies, at least not that I have ever been aware of. Who could have done such a thing?"
"But thou dost not have any Caddellite chunks with which to make helmets!"
Zorn takes the Caddellite from you and begins his work.
Zorn dips the helmet in water to cool it.
Zorn dips the helmets in water to cool them.
"Here, I have met thy request to thy precise specifications."
He hands you the helmet.
He hands you the helmets.
"Thou art too encumbered!"
You see a handsome, creative-looking young man.
"I am a member of our local Artist's Guild here in Minoc."
"Xanthia is a very talented young woman. She makes very elaborate and distinctive candelabras."
"Gladstone is a sculptor and a glassblower. He also is in charge of most of the business decisions for the Guild."
"Until the monument was to be built and now these murders I believed this town to be a good place to live."
"I have not seen or heard of Sasha since we last spoke of him. I do not know if he ever joined The Fellowship."
"Thou hadst best ask Gladstone about that."
You see a mountain man who appears to have been in the wilderness a long time. He gives you a long look, then he snorts and looks away.
"What dost thou want? Leave me alone!"
"If not for Rutherford's fine ale, there would no purpose to the existence of civilization."
"Yes I would, Karl! Thou dost have too low opinion of thyself! Raise thy spirits, please!"
"Far away from the mire of present day society is where I belong. In the wilderness thou canst know what is what."
"If thou dost want to show Julia the plans, I will give them to thee. They are in my cabin southeast of the BMC office."
"Make up thy mind! Art thou following me or not?! If thou art following me then close thy mouth, move thy feet and let us get on."
You see a young man dressed in an expensive tunic. He is very serious.
"These were not the voices of anyone I have ever known. But still these voices had a profound effect on me..."
"It will be called the Excellencia."
"I would give thee thy deed but thou art carrying too much."
"Take thy gold back! I cannot in good conscious keep it!"
"I would give thee thy gold back but I seem to have misplaced it."
"I am dreadfully sorry," he sniffs, "but thou dost not have enough gold."
"Art thou certain? Thou shalt find no better ships in all of Britannia! Very well, then!"
"Mine establishment is presently closed. I do not wish to discuss business at this time."
"Yes, of course thou wouldst."
"Here it is."
"Thou art carrying too much to take thy book."
"I shall return thy money."
"I wouldst give thee back thy gold but thou cannot take it."
"Thou dost not have enough money!"
"Hmph! I suppose that it would be beyond thy comprehension, anyway."
"I cannot build thee a ship as I suspect we both know."
"Nor can I take thy money for one. Here, I shall return it to thee."
"Oh, my, thou art too encumbered to take back thy 1000 gold coins! Come back when thine hands are less full!"
"I cannot help thee with that."
"The changes it has made in my personal life have helped me tremendously."
"Oh, thou canst ask anyone in town about it. They all know."
"The Crown Jewel was in town and left early this morning. It was scheduled to sail for Paws."
"I saw a man with a hook for a hand wandering around town last night."
You see an elderly man struggling to maintain a regal posture.
His eyes widen at the sight of you.
"I had heard thou were travelling in Britannia again, but it took mine own eyes to believe it! Welcome, Avatar!"
"Burnside is my name."
"I am Mayor of Minoc and have been lo these past twenty years and more."
"This town would have been ruined if I had allowed that monument to be built, so I immediately forbade it, of course."
"Why, even Lord British himself will be in attendance! It is a special opportunity when one gets a private audience."
"I am sorry, Avatar. I will try to do well and be a more valuable member of the Fellowship. I beg thee, do not speak of this to Elynor."
"Avatar, may I tell thee a secret?"
"Hrmph! Well, then, kindly forget mine ill-considered words!"
"There are no two ways about it. The statue must be stopped. I am hereby cancelling the erection of the statue."
You see a weary-looking man who is missing his right arm. With his one hand he scratches his head and squints in your general direction.
"Why I be the barkeep of The Checquered Cork. No better place in Minoc to discuss the events of the day."
He coughs into the rag he had just been using to polish the bar.
"'Tis no time for idle chatter! There have been two people murdered over at William's sawmill!"
"We have a cornucopian variety of elixirs to quench thy tongue and gourmet dishes to appease thy palate."
"As I have finished my workday, I ask thee to come back another time. Thou dost have my thanks."
"A room for the night is quite reasonable. Only 8 gold per person. Want one?"
"Here is thy room key. It is good only until thou dost leave."
"Thou dost not have enough gold, eh? That be right bad."
"Mayhaps another night, then."
"If thou wouldst please make thy request at a time that was during my normal business hours, I would be most grateful."
"Before all this evil at the sawmill, the buzz were all about the monument."
"Say, thou be not from around here?" He looks at you skeptically. "Thou art not from the Fellowship by any chance, art thou?"
"I thought so!"
"Just askin'! Thou dost not have to take any offense!"
"I have not seen him recently, but the description of the murder scene certainly sounds like his handiwork!"
"That ship was, indeed, here of late. In fact, 'twas the night of the murders! Could there be a connection? Hmmm..."
You see a man with a very worried look on his face.
"I work in the sawmill here in Minoc."
"It was such a quiet town until these murders happened. I cannot believe it."
"I swear by The Fellowship I have already told thee all I know concerning the murders!"
"I am so glad thou art my brother in The Fellowship; I know I may trust thee. It is all of the others in this town that I worry about."
"Wouldst thou like to know more of The Fellowship?"
"Thou dost know! The monument of Owen the shipwright standing on the bow of a tall ship. Everyone in town doth know of it!"
You see a stealthy-looking woman, dressed all in green. There is a wicked grin on her face.
"I answer to Karenna, and to nothing else."
"I am a teacher in Minoc, along with Jakher."
"Minoc was usually busy, but quiet. Then our town was bothered by this nonsense over Owen's monument, and now these murders."
"Shocking! Such things do not normally happen here. It well proves the value of knowing how to defend oneself."
"Very well. If thou art fortunate thou wilt not have cause to regret it."
"Our establishment is now closed. Please come by during business hours."
"Everyone in town is all up in arms about this and that. But surely others would know more of these local politics. I care not."
"Jakher told thee he doth find me attractive? He denies it, of course, but I have known for years that he doth have feelings for me."
"Once Frederico threw a rock through the window of the local Fellowship branch... Oh, well, I thought it was amusing!"
You see a stern but friendly-looking man, dressed in a military fashion. As you watch him, you get the feeling he is sizing you up as well.
"I am Jakher, named after a great general from the ancient times of Sosaria. Welcome to Minoc."
"My price is 20 gold for each training session. Art thou still interested?"
"I am not in the habit of running training sessions at this particular time."
"Ah, so Karenna said I was cute, did she? Yes, I have known she has had her sights set on me for years."
"Thou wouldst do better to ask Karenna. She is a good friend of the gypsies and would know more about them than I."
You see a swarthy gypsy with soulful eyes, dressed in colorful clothes. He looks as if he has the weight of the world on his shoulders.
"I am Jergi. Pleased to make thine acqvaintance."
"I am the King ov the Gypsies."
"He is the son ov Frederico and Tania. He left us to learn more about The Fellowship. Ov course, he feels responsible for vhat happened..."
"Ve do not blame Sasha for vhat happened. Ve vill not punish him."
"Sasha vill have to decide if he vants to stay vith his people or return to The Fellowship. I believe he vill make the right choice."
"My vife is a vise voman who has some ov the necessary talents to see the future. Thou shouldst speak vith her."
A sneering man watches as you approach. His eyes shift back and forth suspiciously.
"I am Mikos."
"I am the foreman of the Minoc mine."
The ape-like female appears nervous.
The female Emp appears nervous.
"`Job' is not understood. Family is what you mean?"
"Yes, I am part of a family. The Silverleaf tree is my home. I am bonded with Trellek."
"Trellek is my husband."
"Trellek has been met by you?" She smiles proudly, and takes another step forward. "What was said by him?"
"There are fewer and fewer Silverleaf trees. Many are cut down often. Soon, no Silverleaf trees will be around for our homes."
"The trees are cut by a human with a shiny, sharp item."
"To join you is his desire?"
"Permission from Salamon must be gained first. Then permission from me will be granted. Your return to me is necessary for that."
"She is a very wise Emp. Many humans have been met by her. Knowledge and experience are her talents."
"Adventure is not Trellek's desire."
She shrugs.
You see a wingless gargoyle with a terrible skin disease. It looks as if his face is falling off in patches.
"To be named Fodus."
"To be a digger in the mines. To be looking for iron ore and lead and..."
"The secret ore..."
"To be called... blackrock."
"To need the venom... to have more venom..."
"Tavenor is my name."
"The meaning of `job' is not understood."
"No job is had by me. Food is gathered by me and my family."
"The truth is known to me, but, belief is hard for me."
"Fruit and milk are Emp foods. Especially fruits are liked by me. Meats," he shakes his head,~~"are -not- liked by Emps."
"Milk is good. Milk with honey is preferred by me."
"Silverleaf trees are Emp homes."
"Meats are from killed animals. Killing is bad. Destroying is bad."
"Fruits are good and sweet -- like honey!"
"Honey is favorite food of all Emps!"
You see a wizened female ape-like creature.
You see a wizened female Emp.
"You are hailed, human."
"I am without job. All Emps are without jobs. Food gathering and shelter-building are Emp jobs."
"Silverleaf trees are where Emp's homes can be found."
"Only fruits, vegetables, and milk-stuffs are eaten by Emps. Bread is also eaten."
"Milk and cheese and butter are milk-stuffs."
"Bread is hard to make for Emps. No stoves or ovens are owned by Emps. But bread is well liked."
"Fruits and vegetables are our favorites. Many are sweet."
"Sweet things are desired by Emps. Honey is sweetest! More honey is had by you?"
She seems surprised, but quickly recovers.~~"Your feelings are understood by me," she sighs.
She sighs, obviously disappointed.
"No dead animal flesh -- what is called `meat' by humans -- is eaten by an Emp."
"Meat is without a good taste," she shudders. "It is not preferred!"
"All violence is abhorred by Emps. No killing is desired, even for what you humans call food."
"The signed contract must be seen by me."
"You are now in possession of the contract."
"There is not enough room in your equipment for the contract."
Your old friend Nicodemus has a far away look in his eyes.
"Who art thou?" Nicodemus asks. "Oh, I remember. Remember demember! Ha ha ha!"
"Thou art addressing Nicodemus."
"Why, to perform magic! It seems that the disturbance in the ether has been repaired! I can also sell thee some reagents or spells."
"The ether is repaired. The mages of the world are indebted to thee."
"Dost thou wish to buy some spells?"
"Never mind, then!"
"Dost thou wish to buy some reagents?"
"Never mind, then!"
"Dost thou want it for, say, 75 gold?"
"Here is the potion."
"Thou dost not have enough room to carry the potion!"
"Art thou trying to cheat me? Thou dost not have enough gold!"
"Then why didst thou mention it? Leave me alone!"
"I thought so! Tell him that bloody thing still doesn't work! It gives me three shadows! Dadows badows whoopeee! Ha ha ha!"
"He's not? Hmmm. Then he must be the man I am not thinking of!"
"Wait! I remember! He is my Knight's Bridge opponent! We play on my Knight's Bridge court just north of mine house."
"I have not spoken to the Time Lord in months! How is the old codger? Give him my regards. Tell him I miss our Knight's Bridge games!"
"'Tis a life-size board game. I have a book around here somewhere which contains the rules."
"Yes, I just enchanted it."
"Mine old hourglass! I suppose I could revitalize the enchantment upon it."
"I would be most happy to enchant the hourglass. After freeing the ether, I am most indebted to thee. Let me see it..."
"Where is it? Thou dost not have the hourglass!"
Eyeing you carefully, the man before you takes an aggressive stance.
"Job? I have not the time for a job. I am on a quest to rid this land of that which plagues it!"
"I have devoted mine entire life to this, nothing will get in my way, not even Batlin."
"He is the leader of the cursed organization, The Fellowship!"
"Surely thou hast heard of The Fellowship, a most foul and evil organization. It has even infested the lovely forest of Yew!"
"No?" He seems genuinely surprised. "Then perhaps thou wilt consider taking up my quest in thine own manner."
"I expected as much. Thou art truly an honorable warrior."
You see a man leaning on a longbow.
"I am Bradman."
"Why, 'tis my job to train the many who visit Yew to become more agile."
"I would be greatly honored, milord!"
"He is a great archer who resides in the forest. He moved here to get away from the far-too-quickly growing towns."
"If thou wantest to train, my charge is 30 gold. Art thou still interested?"
The man greets you with stern, suspicious eyes.
"I am the High Court official at the prison here in the Abbey."
"I am the judiciary part of Britannia's government. It is my job to see that criminals are brought to justice."
"We have two prisoners already, but there are many scoundrels who still roam free."
"See for thyself, the posted bills for known villains are in the log book in the courtroom."
"No," he says, watching you closely, "of course he is not."
"The monks live and study there, but they do little more than winemaking. Well, I know one of them tends the garden."
You see an unkempt, yet dapper man talking to himself.
"Eh, 'ow's that? Oh, m'job. Why, Oi take good care o' me buddies in the graveyard 'ere in Empath Abbey, Oi do."
"What do ye mean did Oi 'umpeth Abby. 'Course Oi didn't. Oi never went anywhere near Abby. 'Oo told ye that?"
"What wrong with the bodies? Oi don' do nothing more than bury 'em! A fellow could get in lots o' trouble spreading rumors like that."
"Barry? Oh, 'im. Oi don't know what ye's talkin' about. Oi never met Barry's woife! 'Twas just a lie they's spreadin' about me."
"Oi already told ye that's m'job."
"All right then, glad Oi could introduce ye to a few o' my friends."
You see a large cyclops. It looks at you and blinks its eye in irritation.
"I am of the clan Ironheart, the eleventh son of Valador. They call me Iskander."
"My cyclopean people say I am a hero. Many of you humans say I am a monster. No doubt, the truth is somewhere in between."
"Thou dost know my name, but I still do not know the name of thee. I like to know to whom I am speaking. What is thy name?"
"I believe that is word you humans use to describe a polyhedron with four faces."
"This same wave of amnesia struck me every time I tried to approach the tetrahedron. I do not know what sort of foul magic this is."
"Perhaps thou shalt be able to solve this mystery. I have been unable to as of yet. But I shall remain here until its secret is revealed."
"I warn thee that this place is not safe. It holds unknown perils. Perhaps thou wouldst do better to leave this place."
"Of course, now that thou hast destroyed the tetrahedron all magic has been restored. I congratulate thee for thine heroic deed!"
The woman greets you with shining eyes.
"I am a healer. I have chosen to set up shop here near the forest."
"From Aimi I have heard that he is brilliant, and... also a bit overzealous to instruct those interested in increasing their knowledge."
"She is the monk who tends the garden at the Abbey."
"She is one of the monks who lives at the Abbey. At this time, she is the only other person I have actually met here in the forest."
"Aimi is the only one I have met, but I know there are one or two others who make wine there."
"Yes, I get them for my mother."
"I am sorry, but thy wounds are not mortal. Perhaps thou canst visit me when my shop is open."
You see a monk wandering around apparently without direction.
"I am a monk of the Brotherhood of the Rose. I study geography and nature with a brother named Taylor."
"There are so many beautiful things to see in Britannia. Both animals and plants alike offer excitement to the observer."
"Well, I haven't actually seen him for some time. I assume he is still continuing his studies."
"Ah, my least favorite subject. I find the trees much less interesting than the birds."
"Aimi also paints. Or rather, makes a bold attempt. I must, of course, commend her for her efforts."
You see a mage with a wild look in his eyes.
You see a mage with a peaceful look in his eyes.
"Good for thee. I would have had to kill thee. I am Garok Al-Mat. At least, the last time I looked in the mirror, that was who I was!"
"I like thee already! I am Garok Al-Mat."
"I usually live in the mountains, but I am lost in this dungeon."
"I attributed it to a disturbance in the ethereal waves! I had to find out what was happening. So here I am!"
"I started hearing it around the time my magic began to fail. I do not find it amusing."
"Dost thou know the way out?"
"Good. One less thing I have to carry."
"Oh. Thou dost not have the room. Too bad."
"Oh. Thou art as lost as I, eh? Then we shall surely die in here."
"Yes, I remember him! He is lost, too! Dost thou know if he found his way out? Give him my best when thou dost speak to him."
You see a troll, sulking in his cell. As he breathes, you can see his ribs protrude out from under his hide.
"I Gharl."
"I good hunter. Catch many things."
"I still do that," he says, shrugging. "But not as good as when home."
"You give me food?" His face displays a mixture of surprise and hope. "You give me food, I tell you secret. Yes?"
"Trolls have powerful ally. He warn us in head when trouble around corner."
You see a rough-looking man with a bitter expression on his face.
"What do ye care about the name of a wretch?"
"They've put me in here to rot, they have!"
"The Britannian Tax Council done it. They and the two here -- Sir Jeff and Goth."
"They told me I'd be here for the rest of my life. I have no reason to doubt them either!"
"That thieving scoundrel belongs in here more than I do! Don't trust him if ye've gotta choice."
"Ye care, do ye? All right, then. I'll tell ye my name if ye tell me thine, deal?"
"I thought as much."
"None now. But 'til I made this mine home, I was a sailor, a... privateer, out of Buccaneer's Den."
"Well, actually I am in here for not paying my taxes. After all, I... earned the money, why should I give it to the Britannian Tax Council?"
"Yes, I have a name."
"Scoundrel! When thou art asked thy name, thou shouldst respond politely and accurately! The Avatar has just asked thee for -thy- name."
"My name? You can call me what you want, but I will only respond to Smith."
"Good. I will let you continue talking to me then! Which do you prefer, my living room or my bedroom?"
"You always did have bad taste!"
"From a horse? Right! Like I've got some to give you."
"Who doesn't?"
"You really expect me to believe that? You're just in this for the money."
"That's just fine. I was getting tired of you anyway."
"Why, how dare thou speakest to the Avatar in that manner, Smith!"
"And who are you? My master?"
"Why, as a matter of fact..."
"Sure, whatever."
The monk pulls back her cowl far enough for you to see her face.
"He is a fellow monk. He spends his time studying the plants, animals, and geography of Britannia."
"It refers to the practice or study of all things beautiful."
"Thou wishest to buy a bouquet?"
"Dost thou have anyone to give these flowers to?"
"Good. 'Tis always best to have someone to receive flowers. The flowers will cost 10 gold. Dost thou still want them?"
"I think thou wilt find these to be exceptionally beautiful."
"It appears thou dost not have room for my flowers. A pity."
"I am afraid I do not know of such a person."
The woman you see in front of you has a concerned expression on her face, as if her thoughts were far away.
"I have loved close-quarter fighting since I was old enough to grasp my first spear. That's why I moved to Yew."
"It is my choice in arms. The spear combines the best of both range and power. It is the perfect hunting weapon."
"I moved here to hunt, of course. The forest is full of game. I would not think of living anywhere else!"
"Art thou interested in training? My price is 35 gold for each training session."
"Perhaps next time."
"I resent that, my friend. Bows and crossbows can be wielded with deadly effect."
"Although I consider him a true friend and an honorable companion, I wonder about his physical prowess."
"Addom is mine husband. But how did...?" She appears confused, but suddenly directs her gaze at you. "Hast thou seen him?"
"Is he in good health?"
Resting an axe on his shoulder, a tall, broad-chested man smiles and nods at you.
"It was once a large town, but now, 'tis but a smattering of cottages livin' throughout the woods."
"The sawyer there is named William."
"'Tis in the building just northeast of the Brotherhood. I know they keep prisoners there."
"Thou'st got another reason for askin'?"
"They mainly populate the east part o' the Great Forest, way on the other side."
"Why, o' course I'll sign. No more Silverleaf trees for me."
He takes the contract from you and signs it.
He turns to Trellek. "Please apologize to thy kindred for me. I never meant to destroy thine 'omes. Friends, ay?"~~ Trellek smiles and nods.
"Well, I would sign it, but it seems thou hast lost it. If thou dost find it again I will be more than happy to help thee and the Emps."
The beady-eyed man sneers at you.
"Goth. Not that it is any of thy business!"
"What does it look like I do?" he says, holding up a ring of keys. "Gardening?"
"What? Art thou daft?" He shakes his head. "Well, at least thou art in the right area for gardening."
"Empath Abbey, dolt!"
"As a matter of fact, know quite a bit about the people who live here. And I just might even tell thee. What is it worth to thee in gold?"
"Fine by me!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold, toad."
"These? They are for the prisoner's cells, witless knave!"
"I will tell thee for 5 gold. Interested?"
"One of them is named D'Rel. E's a pirate, from Buccaneer's Den."
"Thou dost not have enough money, stonehead."
"Another, eh. Hast thou 5 more gold for me?"
"The other one is a troll. 'E don't talk much, but 'e's the first troll prisoner I have ever seen."
"Thou canst not fool me, brainless dolt. Thou dost not have enough gold!"
"Thou dost want these, eh?" he asks, holding up keys. "'Twill cost thee... 20 gold. Still want them?"
At your approach, the woman raises her eyebrows to indicate she is aware of your presence and interested in what you are about to say.
"I am the tailor of Moonglow."
"I also tend the bar for Phearcy in the evenings."
"I believe his name is Tolemac. He is a farmer, from what I have heard. Phearcy would know more than I. Or thou couldst ask their clerk."
"'Tis a woman, I know that, but I do not know her name."
"His name is Rankin. I do not believe he has been here terribly long."
"Yes, I love sewing clothing. Wouldst thou be interested in seeing or purchasing some of my creations?"
Shock covers her face.~~"Well," she huffs.
Though he does not seem hostile, the man greets you in a fighting stance.
"I am called Master De Snel."
"I do not feel like discussing business at the moment. Some other time perhaps."
"I train my students to be fierce and ruthless fighters!"
De Snel peers at you, obviously aware you are lying.
You look De Snel in the eye and tell him that you found it at the scene of the murders in Minoc. He gives you a curious look.
"That dagger was stolen from the Library of Scars weeks ago. I have no further knowledge of it."
"By the way, hast thou had a demonstration of my training technique?"
"Then perhaps thou shouldst have another."
"Then perhaps thou shouldst try one."
"Very well, then!" His scowl indicates his displeasure. "If thou dost not like it, perhaps the Library of Scars is not the place for thee."
"Thy companions and thee look fit enough for an informal practice session. Consider it a demonstration of my fighting style."
You see a man who exudes the outward mannerisms of a shrewd administrator, in contrast to his youthful appearance.
"My name is Joseph."
"Presently, I am the mayor of Jhelom."
"This town is a rough place. A fine place for fighting men and women to live. Perhaps thou hast seen our local sport?"
"Why, 'tis duelling! At twelve noon every day, the town square becomes a battlefield."
"Speak to Daphne or Ophelia at the Bunk and Stool, our town pub and inn."
You see a battle-scarred old soldier.
"Greetings!" says Kliftin. "Hast thou gotten into any scrapes lately?"
"I am Kliftin."
"In my day I was a pretty damned good soldier. Now I am the master of the Armoury here in Jhelom."
"I sell armour and weapons here. I have something to meet thine every need. Dost thou wish to see armour or weapons?"
"Surely thou dost not want to listen to old war stories?! I have seen my share of death and destruction. Leave it at that."
"I sell and collect weapons of all types. Business is always excellent, although my best customers keep getting killed in duels!"
"Jhelom is a rough place. If thou dost not like trouble then I can think of many better places for thee to be than here."
"It is good of thee to help that poor Sprellic fellow in his hour of need."
"Thou canst ask about the entire matter at the pub if thou dost wish to know more about it."
"Dost thou want me to make an honor flag that can be given to the Library of Scars so the duels can be stopped?"
"How canst thou have the key to saving Sprellic's life in thine hand and do nothing as he faces certain death?!"
"Disturb me not! The flag is not finished! Come to my shop later."
"Here is the imitation I have made of the Library of Scars' honor flag."
"The time for the duels must be drawing near. Good luck to Sprellic, and to thee as well!"
"Thou must put something down if thou art to carry the flag!"
A pretty woman gives you a friendly grin and then coyly turns her eyes away from you.
"I am a barmaid. I do most of the work at The Bunk and Stool here in Jhelom."
"For naught more than 5 gold thou canst get a lovely room. Dost thou wish to stay the night?"
"Here is thy key. Be warned, 'twill only work in this establishment, and only for one use."
"Right now I am not at work so please do not address me as if I were."
"After he defeats the fighters of the Library of Scars, he may open his own school teaching his own unique style of fighting."
Ophelia motions you closer to her. She whispers to you. "Sprellic can call upon the Avatar to come and be his champion." She nods solemnly.
"Sorry, all bets are off, due to the... er, unfortunate passing on of one or more of the parties involved."
"I am taking wagers on Sprellic's duels. Wouldst thou like to place a bet?"
"How much wouldst thou like to bet that Sprellic defeats all three of his challengers?"
"Perhaps thou art not truly serious about thy convictions. Mayhaps Daphne will take thy line of bets."
"Very well. How much wouldst thou like to bet?"
"Thou must return later when thou hast enough room in thy pack for these markers."
"Thou hast not the amount of gold thou dost want to bet! Art thou trying to swindle me?"
"Then if thou wouldst like to bet against Sprellic, thou mayest see Daphne, but I warn thee thou wilt be throwing thy money away!"
"Thou cannot carry that much gold! Return later when thou canst take all thy winnings at one time!"
"Thou hast already collected thy winnings!"
"Who? Oh, he is a local boy who comes in here and moons over me on occasion. Do not concern thyself with him. I do not."
"Do not get thine hopes up yet, my dear Daphne! I have put a condition on our marriage and poor Cosmo will never be able to fulfill it!"
"Hmpf! If thou didst bet against him, then I suppose thou shalt be rich! I wouldst bet that thou wert the one who killed him, too!"
You see a disgruntled, obviously overworked barmaid. She gives you a perfunctory grunt of a hello.
"I am Daphne."
"Hmmph! That would be Ophelia."
"Thou shalt have to ask Ophelia about that. My domain is the kitchen!"
"Ophelia this! Ophelia that! That is all I ever hear all bloody day! If all thou dost want to talk about is her, talk to someone else!"
"I am sorry. All bets are off since the matter has been resolved."
"In fact, I am taking bets on the upcoming duels. Dost thou wish to bet that Sprellic will lose to any of the three other duellists?"
"How much wouldst thou like to bet?"
"Perhaps thou art not truly serious about thy convictions. Mayhaps the princess will take thy line of bets."
"Very well. How much wouldst thou like to bet?"
"Thou mayest come see me after the duels and exchange this marker for thy winnings if thou hast won."
"Oh! Thou must return later when thou hast enough room in thy pack for these markers."
"Thou hast not the amount of gold thou dost want to bet! Art thou trying to swindle me?"
"Then if thou wouldst like to bet in favor of Sprellic, thou mayest see Ophelia, but I warn thee thou wilt be throwing thy money away!"
"Thou cannot possibly carry all that gold. Thou must come back when I can give thee the proper amount of gold!"
You see a scrawny and timid-looking man who eyes you fearfully.
"Oh, my!" he cries. "'Tis really the Avatar this time! Please do not hurt me, Avatar!"
"My name is Sprellic."
"I am the proprietor of the Bunk and Stool here in Jhelom."
"But that does not matter for soon I will be dead."
"This is a town of fighters who pass their time fighting each other in bloody duels. It is no place for me. I should never have left Minoc!"
"It is the club of fighters run by Master De Snel! Second home to the fiercest and most ruthless fighters in all of Britannia."
"'Tis a long story. I shall probably be dead before I can finish it."
"My tale is a strange one. It may disturb and puzzle thee. Art thou certain thou wouldst like to hear it?"
"...And I believed him, which shows thee how gullible I am!"
"No offense, but he was also a member of The Fellowship!"
"He was a member of The Fellowship, too!"
"Of course most of the food he left was uneaten! I had to give it away once it started to spoil!"
"As I have said, I was rooked by a professional. A Master Criminal, no doubt -- and one who is still at large!"
"Timmons has come to Jhelom only recently. I can tell thee nothing more of him."
"He is a fearless warrior, who cherishes any opportunity for combat. Beware of him."
"Mine only hope for survival is to find a champion who could stand up to the fiercest fighters in Jhelom."
"Wouldst thou be my champion, Avatar?"
"Oh, well. I had no choice but to ask."
You tell Sprellic that the situation has been resolved and how it was done.
Sprellic practically kisses your feet.
"How can I ever thank thee? Thou art the most noble person I have ever met! I shalt be forever in thy debt! I thank thee!"
You tell Sprellic that Kliftin made you a false flag.
"How ingenious! Please! Deliver it to Syria as soon as thou art able! And I thank thee for thy trouble in helping me!"
"Good day to thee, Avatar."
"So, thou wishes to fight for the cowardly Sprellic! Meet us at the duelling area at next noon!"
"If he had not returned the honor flag to us we would have had to kill him dead as sure as I am standing here."
"He is a genius. Perhaps the greatest military mind that ever lived. He told us so!"
"I see that coward Sprellic has given thee the flag so that it may be returned to us. Thou hadst better hand it over."
She takes the banner from you.
Standing before you is a statuesque fighting woman with eyes that radiate a familiarity with danger.
"I am Syria, a fighter from the south."
"A pity we could not teach that little fool a lesson. Still, we have regained our honor and that is enough. For now."
"A pity we could not teach that little fool a lesson. Perhaps we have anyway. For his sake, he had better have learned it well."
"I understand that coward Sprellic has given thee the flag so that it may be returned to us. Thou hadst better hand it over."
She takes the banner from you.
You see a very serious young man. He carries himself like a learned and mannered gentleman.
"Unfortunately, the duels with Sprellic were called off before I had the opportunity to impress Master De Snel."
You see a striking woman in fighter's gear. She looks at you fiercely.
"I am called Iriale Silvermist. Who art thou?"
"I do not know thee!"
"I do not approve of jokes."
"Thou dost know it. Attendees of the Retreat must stay out of this cave."
"Wilt thou leave?"
Before you is a shrewd-looking craftsman, obviously filled with the contentment of a peaceful life.
"I am Russell, a shipwright."
"But I have already sold thee the deed to 'The Nymphet'! I am afraid that was the only ship I had at this time."
"Thou wishest to purchase my ship 'The Nymphet'? The deed will cost thee 600 gold."
"Thou art carrying too much to take thy deed. Come back after putting some things down."
"When my shop is again open I shall be more than happy to help thee."
"Thou wishest to purchase one of my fine sextants? 'Twill cost thee 40 gold."
"I would gladly give thee thy sextant but thou shalt have to put something down! Thou art carrying too much to take it."
"At present my shop is closed. If thou wilt come back during business hours I shall be more than happy to help thee."
"Things have been very peaceful in New Magincia. There has been little trouble from outsiders lately."
"Before thine arrival there had not been a stranger in New Magincia for years, save for the survivors of the shipwreck."
"I found the wreckage. Three men were clinging to it for their lives."
"They were from Buccaneer's Den. Most people that come here come because they are lost on their way to or from Buccaneer's Den."
"I offered to sell them a ship, but they had no money. They actually seemed offended when I would not give it to them for free!"
"The three strangers tried to offer me some kind of trinket to build or sell them a ship. It sounds like the locket thou art describing."
"I could not help noticing your medallion. It does look somewhat sinister. I cannot recall ever having seen one like it before."
"The Crown Jewel just left here a short while ago. I do not know where it was headed."
"I have heard nothing more of the Crown Jewel since we last spoke of it."
"Just as the Crown Jewel left I saw a man with a hook jump on board. There was a gargoyle accompanying him."
"I have heard nothing more of this man Hook since we last spoke of him."
"Art thou ready to pay thy bill?"
You see a leering, ill-postured man who chortles to himself.
"Well if it isn't Dupre! -Sir- Dupre now, is it?"
"That it is, Boris."
"Hmmm-- it seems to me thou dost have a tab still going here? Yes?"
"Oh? Do I?"
"I thank thee, Avatar."
You hand the gold over to Boris.
"'Tis a pleasure to do business with thee, Sir Dupre! And welcome to my pub!"
"Call me Boris."
"I run The Modest Damsel, here in New Magincia."
"The Modest Damsel is now closed for business. But do please return during business hours."
"I am certain thou wilt enjoy our food and drink."
"Why dost thou not stay the night? For but 3 gold thou canst let one of our rooms. Dost thou wish to stay the night?"
"Here is thy room key. 'Twill only work in this inn."
"Thou hast not enough gold for my rooms."
"Some other evening, perhaps."
"In all of Britannia thou shalt not find a place that changes so little. Even the people always seem the same."
"There are merchants and laborers, as well as a few new folks."
"They would be Russell, the shipwright; Henry, the peddler; and Sam, the flower man."
"They would be Katrina, the shepherd, and Constance, the water carrier."
"Except for the three strangers, the only relatively new person on the island is Alagner, the sage."
"That is because the Avatar is one my dearest friends."
"Am I not one of thy dearest friends, Katrina?"
"Thou art a flirt, Boris! Dost Magenta know how thou dost want to be dearest friends with the other women living on the island?"
"I do not wish to hear of that locket ever again! Do not speak to me of it!"
"I am quite certain I have never seen such a locket. I shall be happy to keep mine eyes open, though."
You see a humble-looking older woman. She gives you a friendly smile.
"I am Magenta, of New Magincia."
"I am the Mayor of New Magincia, and the wife of Boris."
"Oh, nothing is ever new in New Magincia, as the joke around here goes. But that is how we like it. We have few visitors here."
"Certainly some of the other townsfolk must have seen them by now. Perhaps they will have more information."
"I would never have suspected anything so romantic from Boris. The locket must be a surprise for me!"
"He must be trying to get back on my good side after all of the times I have caught him wenching and carousing."
"Well, I -did- think he was going to give it to me to make up for all the times I have caught him wenching and carousing."
"Say, dost thou think that Boris could have meant to give this locket to someone else?"
"Here is the locket. Take it."
"I cannot give thee the locket. Thou art too encumbered. Come back after thou hast put a few things down."
"I am flattered Boris would buy me such an obviously expensive gift. But how could he ever have afforded it?"
"Here it is. Take it."
"Thou hast not room to carry even such a small thing as this! If thou wilt set something down, I will give thee the locket."
You see a scruffy young man who is obviously suffering from a broken heart.
"Job?! Who can work when he has a broken heart?!"
"Although I am called a peddler, I have the greatest selection of items to be found in New Magincia."
"I have been rejected by the woman I love."
"She is the waterbearer of the town. She carries water from the well of Humility to all the homes in town."
"Katrina is a shepherd here on New Magincia. She has been a friend of mine since I was a boy."
"We have had some good memories, have we not, Henry?"
"Whatever thou dost say, dear Henry."
"I noticed I had lost the locket right after I spoke with those three strangers yesterday. Wouldst thou help me find it?"
"Thou hast found the locket!"
"I am glad that this situation has concluded in thy favor, dear Henry."
"My thanks to thee, Katrina."
You see an angelic young woman who gives you a smile of complete innocence.
"I carry water from the well of humility to all of the homes here in New Magincia."
"The water from the well is pure and cool. If thou wouldst like I will pour thee some."
"If thou wouldst ever change thy mind thou needest only let me know."
"There are three strangers on the island! They have been shipwrecked here! I have met them. Their leader's name is Robin."
"I was born in New Magincia and I have lived here mine entire life. But now I wish to leave for mine heart hath been broken."
"Once I was in love with Henry, the peddler, but then I learned he is a liar and a cad. Perhaps soon mine heart shall belong to another."
"Their names were Battles and Leavell. Both of them treated me like proper gentlemen."
"Buccaneer's Den must be a wonderland. There is a spinning wheel that gives thee money! Canst thou imagine! And opulent, luxurious baths."
"Leavell was charming and witty. He can always make me laugh."
"Well, they certainly have nothing like that in New Magincia. I had never even heard of such a thing before!"
"Doth that not sound nice?"
You see a roguish man dressed in what appears to be some nobleman's ratty hand-me-downs.
"My friends are Battles and Leavell. Their job is to protect me and my winnings. In exchange they share in my profits."
"Do not ask me why he is called that! Everyone there calls him that, though!"
"I do not know of any. I only just arrived here myself."
"Forgive me if I do not believe thee."
"But say, thou must have gotten here in some manner! Dost thou have some manner of ship on which we could leave the island?"
"I could pay thee well if thou wouldst take us back to Buccaneer's Den."
"If thou shouldst come across a way off this island please permit us to leave with thee."
"Yes, money! For I have found something here in New Magincia that will be worth more than gold in Buccaneer's Den."
"Before I tell thee what it is, wilt thou promise to take me and my mates back to Buccaneer's Den?"
"Then I cannot trust thee enough to tell thee of my plans. Go away."
"Battles. M'self, I be a stranger to New Magincia."
"I be hired as a bodyguard for Master Robin, as is me partner, Leavell. The pay be good."
"Robin be a high stakes gamblin' gent who makes his living inna casino at Buccaneer's Den."
"Gamblin' is how Robin makes his living. I do not think he has had a regular post in all of his life!"
"He's a lady's man, he is. But do not be thinkin' he cannot handle hissel' inna fight. T'would be yer last mistake."
"Har! Har! Har! Har!"
"Why, I reckon Leavell has broken near as many hearts as I have made stop beating!"
"Just the practice Leavell has had in fending off jealous husbands 'twould make any man a master combatant!"
"Canst thou imagine spending thine entire life here with nothing happening day after day after day? 'Tis enough to drive a man mad!"
You see a young man balancing a dagger on the tip of his finger. He tries hard to ignore you.
Leavell balances his dagger on his fingertip. In a blur of motion, he snatches it out of the air, pointing at you. He stares you in the eye.
"I am Leavell."
"Along with Battles, I am a bodyguard for Master Robin. If not for him, I would have landed in prison instead of in New Magincia."
"I do not know what thou art talking about."
"He has an eye like a hawk, and is quicker than a cat. 'Twould be wise of thee to pay him respect."
"Har! Har! Thou art too correct, Leavell!"
"If Battles had not spotted that approaching storm we would have all been dead men for certain!"
"It took a terrible toll on our boat, but if truth be told I have seen far worse."
"I have seen Battles has reflexes faster than a snake."
"Yes, I have done things to be put in prison for. But I am not ashamed of my life. I do not have to be held accountable to thee about it."
"He is a gambler by profession, who earns his winnings at the House of Games's tables on Buccaneer's Den."
"Soon we shall return and the money will pour like sweet wine once again, eh, Leavell?"
"The ship we sailed on sank, leaving us stranded here. We were lucky to make it to New Magincia with our lives!"
"If thou wouldst have some way of getting us back to Buccaneer's Den, Master Robin would reward thee handsomely."
"Peasant fools and sheep. The only thing worth a second look in this whole town is Constance."
"Here, what is not one is the other. This place is so isolated that it is backward. What is worse, they prefer it this way!"
"While I myself have seen no such locket, perhaps thou shouldst ask Master Robin about it."
You see a content-looking bearded man, with deep-set laugh lines in his face and gentle eyes.
"My name is Sam. I am the Flower Man. And what is thy name?"
"It is nice to meet thee."
"Fine. If thou dost wish to be the Avatar, I will not argue. Thou canst be the Avatar if thou dost want to be."
"It is because of what I learn in my studies that I may grow my flowers to be so large and healthy."
"Surely thou dost wish to purchase some?"
"A bouquet costs 12 gold. Art thou still interested?"
"The bouquet is thine!"
"Thine hands are too full to take the bouquet!"
"Thou dost not have the money to buy flowers. But take heart, whenever thou canst afford them, I shall still be selling them."
"Perhaps another time then."
"There are three strangers on this island that have washed ashore in a shipwreck. Perhaps thou shalt meet them."
You see a familiar face, a stern-looking bearded warrior whom you have met on one of your previous journeys to Britannia.
"Ho, Avatar!" says Gorn. "Thou dost vish to speak mit me?"
"Yah! I came to Britannia t'rough vone ov de Moongates, de same as thee. Dat vas many, many years ago."
"I perform heroic deeds in honor ov Brom. Everyting I do is in service to him."
"Ya! Brom he is my master. If he vishes me to do someting, I must do it! If he does not vant me to do someting, I must not do it!"
"I can see by dat medallion thou dost vear dat thou hast snuck into dis place by disguising thyself as vone of dem. Very clever, Avatar!"
"I know dat Brom is somevhere down in dis cave, und I vill not leave dis place until I find him!"
"Wouldst thou help me find Brom?"
The Liche practically glows, power coursing visibly through its undead veins.
"Why, what else wouldst thou call it? Surely thou art truly humbled by my `majestic' presence."
"Is she not the most beautiful lady thou hast seen? ~~"She shall have eternal beauty at my side, and we shall rule together."
"Now, now, Avatar, that would be revealing. Then I would have no secret from thee, would I?"
You see in the fire of the ghostly forge a large, heavily-muscled ghost with a full beard and mustache. He does not notice your approach.
Trent continues his work on the strangely-shaped iron cage.
Trent seems to be searching for something.
He continues hammering on a strangely-shaped iron cage.
You notice the music box he spoke of sitting nearby.
"Thou must have Caine's assistance in creating the formula, but I can give thee the ingredients."
"Wouldst thou like to know about the townsfolk of Skara Brae?"
"I am called... Rowena"
"'Tis good news indeed, milady."
"'Tis not all thou wert a connoisseur of," adds Paulette, eyes twinkling. "I seem to remember thou had quite a taste for redheads."
Paulette turns to face you and smiles coquettishly, "I had thought that thou might return." Her eyes sparkle up at you mischievously.
"Thou dost wish to purchase something?"
"I have been around for many, many years. And," he smiles, "I have seen many, many things in that time."
Of what service can I be to one so great as thee?" He bows.
"As I told thee, my name is Forsythe."
"Well, the alchemist is the one who started the fire!"
"That is what we call Caine. He is the alchemist who created the fire."
"Just look for the crater near the northeast coast. Thou shalt find him there."
"The town healer said something about Rowena sitting on a throne in the Dark Tower on the northwestern point."
"As thou wishest!"
"Trent is in the smithy, not far from here, across the road."
"She can be found in her house, right across the road."
"Quen spends just about all of his time in the Keg Of Spirits tavern, near the ferry dock."
"Ah, that lovely girl is the barmaid of the Keg Of Spirits tavern, down by the ferry dock."
"That cantankerous man runs the tavern, the Keg Of Spirits. Thou canst find it near the ferry dock."
"Well, now. Just how didst thou come to this island? That is right. -That- ferryman. He is on the ferry of Skara Brae, to the southeast."
"That is me."~~Shandu smiles and licks his lips.~~ "I like it when my food says my name!"
"We guard the Caddellite, do we not? Our purpose in life is to guard the Caddellite!"
Shanda becomes excited and snorts as if he were saying several sentences.
"He wasn't talking to thee!"
"Shanda says he wants something to eat!"
"Thou cannot say 'bye' to us! How rude!"
"Oh! I feel so much better! The pain is ebbing. Now we may converse much more easily."
"I am Penumbra. Surely thou dost remember me?"
"I feel much better. The damaged ethereal waves are not striking my mind. But now we must destroy what is causing this problem!"
She closes her eyes a moment.
"In my mind's eye, I see a large object shaped like a tetrahedron. I am beginning to understand what this is."
"In my mind's eye, I see a large object in a dungeon north of here. Thou dost know of what I speak, dost thou not?"
"Thou shalt find him on the island of Terfin. Ask him about the ring."
"Please! I cannot help thee until I am protected from the damaged ether!"
"The enchanted ring shall protect thee."
"The ethereal ring must be enchanted."
"Thou hast destroyed it! All the mages thank thee!"
"Dost thou know of a material that is impenetrable?"
"What is it?"
"The blackrock is working! I no longer feel the painful ether!"
"It is quite a material, is it not? I imagine it could be used for many magical things."
You tell Penumbra the story of how you need to get the hourglass enchanted.
"I see. Well, thou best be on thy way, so that thou canst indeed get thine hourglass enchanted!"
"What dost thou want? I have already enchanted the ring!"
"What dost thou want? I have already enchanted the ring. It can do no more for thee!"
"But that -is- my name! Kissme! Kissme! It is true!"
"My purpose is to spread love dust all around and welcome thee to Ambrosia! I love thee! Yes, I do!"
"That is where thou art! It is true! Oh, yes! Ambrosia!"
"Ambrosia, the lost isle of Britannia! Thou art really here!"
"It does nothing that I know of! But it's pretty!" Kissme giggles like a child. "It's how I show thee I love thee! It's true!"
"Ambrosia was hit by stones from the sky hundreds of years ago! Oh, yes indeed! The entire island was battered to bits! It is true!"
"I believe it is called Caddellite. Yes, I believe it's true!~~"And I -do- love thee, it is so true!"
"Most of it is collected in the pit where the hydra sits. Thou shalt have to ask the hydra about it. It is true!"
"It does not matter whether thou art male or female! No, it does not! I shall kiss thee anyway!"
You see a woman who meets your gaze with an icy stare.
"What dost thou need now?"
"I am Zelda."
"I am the advisor at the Lycaeum."
"I have not the time for these petty geography questions. Check an atlas!"
"If I tell thee this last thing, wilt thou depart so I may return to my job?"
"For thy kindness, I will give thee this white potion I found once while straightening the basement."
"Well, his brother, Brion, is quite attractive, I think."
You see your old friend Mariah.
"Yes, dost thou not recognize me?" She pauses, glaring at you. "But who art thou, and where are my pastries?"
"Yes, thou mayest tell me thy name," she says, glancing around the building. "Are not the many books beautiful?"
"Are not they the neatest, most orderly, and well-kept shelves thou hast seen? They do an excellent job of maintaining them!"
"They are always so full and ready for use. They are so good about keeping them filled and clean!"
"Yes, they do!" Her face turns sad. "But I only sell."
"Why, today. Thou art in luck. Buy a spell."
The troll snarls at you, obviously displeased at your presence.
"I Grod. Why you want know? Is voice unhappy?"
"Good. I do my job good!"
"I Grod. Who you?"
"Want to help?"
He hands you a whip.
"You too wimpy to use whip!"
"Big group, many people. You should join!"
"You don't know?" He frowns.~~ "You should learn before the voice become angry!"
"Good, join. See Abraham or Danag about join."
"I try make him stop. But he talk and talk. You try? Maybe he stop."
You see a man with an unhappy look upon his face.
"I am Cubolt of Moonglow."
You see a woman with a very serious look about her.
"I am the clerk for the Moonglow branch of The Fellowship."
"It is my job to keep records during the meetings, and to administrate the decisions of this branch."
"I am afraid I must first see what thou art referring to before I can answer thy question."
She stares at you suspiciously.
"This seemed to be an... appropriate place to start up a branch. There are many good citizens here in Moonglow."
"Many of the people lack the discipline required to reach their highest potential."
"The Fellowship is designed to enrich the lives of everyone who resides in this fair land."
"The three principles are: Strive for Unity, Trust thy Brother -- and sister -- and Worthiness precedes Reward."
You see a friendly-looking farmer.
"I help my brother tend our farm here in Moonglow."
"Rankin is very intelligent. He is the one who persuaded me to join The Fellowship. I have much respect for him."
"She is the branch clerk. Most of the time, she is friendly. Sometimes, however, she seems a little cold."
"Morz and I grew up together. He is very sensitive about his stutter, though, so I would not bring it up."
"And to think thou art a fellow member. There is no unity in thy speech!"
The man before you shyly looks away.
"M-M-Morz."
"I work with C-C-Cubolt, f-f-farming here."
"M-M-Moonglow."
"He is T-T-Tolemac's older br-br-brother. I t-t-trust him."
"Thou d-d-dost n-n-not think I should join? C-C-Cubolt does not want m-m-me t-t-to either. I s-s-suppose I won't. I thank thee."
You see a young woman with an intellectual bearing.
"My price is 35 gold for each training session. Art thou willing to pay that?"
"Then I really should return to my studies."
"A better time to train thee would be when I am in my study."
You see a man with a sour expression on his face holding a baby boy. As he sees you, his face brightens.
"What is thy name?"
"That is the name of my son. 'Tis a good name, yes?"
He raises his shoulders, making him appear quite sheepish.
You see a lithe-looking fighter smile in your direction.
"I teach expertise with light weapons here in Moonglow."
"Dost thou want the location of the city or to know about the townspeople?"
"Moonglow is on an island directly east of the border between Britain and Paws."
"The person to ask for that information would be Phearcy, the bartender. All I know are other bar patrons: Tolemac and Morz, two farmers."
"Yes, I train people. But only during the day. Now, 'tis time for drink!"
"Wilt thou pay the 45 gold for the training session?"
"Well, mayhap next time thou wilt be willing."
The man looks at you through smiling eyes.
"I am the healer of the residents of this community."
"There is a traveller visiting from Yew. He has seen many exciting things in Britannia. I enjoy listening to his many tales of adventure."
"His name is Addom. While he is in town, I am letting him stay in one of my beds."
"Yes, I sell mine healing services to those who need them."
"Perhaps thou couldst come for healing when I am working in my shop."
"My patients here in Moonglow. Who will help them if not I?"
"The head there is Brion. He is the twin of the head of the Lycaeum. I like him, although he and his brother are both a little eccentric."
"Why, Hello, Sir Dupre. Things fare well I trust?"
"Greetings, fair Phearcy. Yes, thank thee, things are well."
You see a man who gives you a friendly smile.
"Hast thou discovered the reason for Zelda's moods?"
"And when thy load is lighter, then I can give thee thy beverages."
"I am the bartender here in Moonglow."
"Ah, the learned scholars. I can tell thee about Brion, Nelson, Zelda, and Jillian."
"Dost thou want to know about the one in charge or his clerk?"
"Ah, yes, Mariah is very nice."
"She can sell thee many spells."
"But I am more interested in discussing Zelda."
"She is a tailor. Lovely woman, that Carlyn. She minds the bar when I go to the Fellowship meetings at night."
"But I would rather discuss Zelda."
"Wonderful scholar. Very nice woman. Married to Effrem."
"But I am more interested in discussing Zelda."
"Friendly fellow -- I like him."
"He stays home to care for their son."
"But I am more interested in discussing Brion."
"Chad is a friendly fellow -- I like him."
"But I would rather discuss Brion."
"Tolemac and Cubolt are brothers. With Morz's help, they run a farm."
"But I would prefer to talk about Brion."
"Friendly fellow -- I like him. His name is Elad."
"But Brion is more interesting to me."
"He is Brion's twin brother."
"Speaking of that, I would like to discuss Brion."
"Rankin is in charge of the entire local branch. If thou hast any questions about The Fellowship, he can answer them."
"If thou hast any questions about The Fellowship, Balayna can answer them."
"Well, as thou dost know, Brion is the head of Observatory, and Zelda, the advisor at the Lyceaum, is in love with him."
You see a handsome,hardened, muscular man who, surprisingly, bears a friendly smile on his face.
"I travel the world in search of rare and unique items to sell to museums. I am not a resident of Moonglow."
"I have found many odd artifacts. Many of the things thou hast seen in The Music Hall and the Lycaeum have been brought to them by me."
"He is in charge of the Lycaeum. He loves trinkets and rarities."
"She teaches close-quarter combat. Everything I needed to know to survive on my journeys I learned from her."
"I thank thee."
"I think thou dost ask too many questions."
You see a fox standing on his hind legs, staring directly at you.
"And who wouldst thou be?"
"It is good that thou didst tell me. One should always be honest in one's dealings with others. By the by, thy voice crackles too much."
"I am sorry to see that thou art not trusting enough to reveal thy name." He shrugs. "By the by, thy voice crackles too much."
"Yes, as in `take a bath.' I must inform thee that thou dost truly stink!"
"Speaking of thy friends, I have heard that thy companion, Dupre, is a drunken sot."
"Yes, bellicose, warlike, angry. If thou dost not know that, I believe thou needest to improve thy vocabulary. Thou art too unschooled."
"Truly quite large, and not in the least bit attractive."
You see a man covered in the sweat of a hard day's work.
"I am Thurston."
"I operate the mill here in Paws."
"A sack will cost thee 12 gold. Art thou interested in purchasing some?"
"Thou hast not the room for this sack."
"I have paid thee once for thy delivery. I shall not do so again."
"'Tis a puzzlement! Camille promised to make a delivery of wheat to me sometime today and it is late. I wonder where it could be."
"I know they do good work here in town, but there is just something about them that makes me uncomfortable."
"Avatar! Oh Avatar! I have news!"
You see a small man with twisted, sloped posture. He looks you up and down before deciding he will speak to you.
"My name is Feridwyn."
"I run the Fellowship shelter with my wife Brita and my son Garritt here in Paws."
"Wouldst thou like to join?"
"Then thou must see Batlin of Britain. He is the founder of The Fellowship."
"Thou dost not yet comprehend how much thy life could be improved through the guidance of The Fellowship."
"A wonderful woman. Thou shouldst meet her."
"They would be Morfin, Andrew, Thurston, and Beverlea."
"She is a nearly blind elderly woman who runs the antique shoppe on the east side of the river."
"That would be Camille and her son Tobias."
"Our residents include Alina and her child, and Merrick."
"Her husband is currently in Britain somewhere. I do not know the details. She has a small child."
"I have not seen Elizabeth and Abraham for many days now."
"Thurston owns the mill. He could do better if he ran his business with more of an eye toward profit."
"A splendid example of The Fellowship turning someone's life around. Presently he resides in our shelter."
"Morfin is a clever and industrious member of The Fellowship. He runs the local slaughterhouse and is also a snake venom merchant."
"Andrew is such a happy young man. He doth not notice the myriad of personal problems that he is afflicted with."
"Fenn is a beggar who refuses all aid from The Fellowship. A pathetic case. Not even his former friend Merrick can reach him any more."
"Thou didst find the venom vial in Garritt's belongings? I am amazed! I am astonished! I am-- sorry."
"Thou art a resourceful person. Unfortunately, thy discovery has upset me a great deal."
"Thou dost say my son has admitted to stealing the venom?! I do not know what to say. My thanks, Avatar, for uncovering the truth."
A stern-looking woman stares back at you without humor.
"I am Brita."
"I help mine husband Feridwyn run The Fellowship's shelter in Paws."
"Mine husband is the most honorable man I have ever met in my life."
"Thou shouldst speak to mine husband of The Fellowship. I am certain thou wilt be most impressed by what he shall have to tell thee."
"I know about these people:"
"It is good to determine an impression of others on one's own."
"A simply wretched little urchin. Always sulking. But then, one must realize that he has no father to discipline him properly."
"So Garritt admits he stole the venom vial. I cannot believe it! I do not know what to say."
"Garritt is so talented at the whistle panpipes! It is truly a gift!"
"I have never seen any myself. I have no idea what it does to someone, but it cannot possibly be good!"
You see a simple peasant woman. Her face is etched with sorrow.
"I am Alina."
"Cassie is my daughter. Just a wee babe, she is mine only joy."
"Mine husband is imprisoned in Britain for stealing fruit from the Royal Orchards."
"We are very poor. My baby and I are presently living in the Fellowship shelter because we have nowhere else to go."
"It was a member of The Fellowship that has accused mine husband. Now they wish for me to join them."
"Mine husband is innocent, I know it!. He intended to buy the fruit. Why must I join thy society in order for me to be taken at my word?"
"We are fortunate that we are able to live by The Fellowship's good graces, but I do not know how long we will be allowed to stay."
"I am Merrick."
"I used to be a farmer here in Paws. Now I suppose I work for the Fellowship. I live in their shelter."
"I was a farmer; of course, that was before the seven year drought. Komor, Fenn and myself were reduced to paupers."
"I have lived here in Paws all my life. I will not leave it now. I shall never leave."
"I believe his name is Tobias."
"I believe her name is Camille."
You see a jovial young man who gives you a friendly greeting.
"I am Garritt, the son of Feridwyn and Brita."
"My father works for The Fellowship helping the poor people in Paws. He tries to recruit them, but most refuse."
"Actually, I do not like this town very much. The people here are all poor and the only one mine own age is Tobias."
"And," he adds, "there is a thief here."
"He and his mother reject The Fellowship. They are witless and stupid and I do not like them."
"My father says that the poor people reject The Fellowship because the Triad of Inner Strength requires strength of character."
"I was not so sure, but since that is what my father says, it must be true."
"Hmpf. For a Fellowship member, thou dost lack recognition. Thou dost not understand the teachings of The Fellowship."
"Then thou must be a person of weak character, also."
"Oh, she is just my mother. She does whatever my father doth tell her to do."
"I am a member and I am proud to say I recruit for them as well."
"Oh, I can tell thee all thou dost need to know about us!"
"Dost thou want to join?"
"I got another one!" he says gleefully. "Thou must speak with my father right away!"
"Contemplate it for the nonce, then."
"Thou hast found me out! Yes, it was I who planted the venom on Tobias. He did deserve it! I beg thee, please do not tell my parents!"
"I stole the venom from Morfin so I could put the blame on Tobias."
Garritt does not meet your eyes. You instinctively know he is not telling the truth and may very well be using the venom.
"Wilt thou tell my parents?"
"But I, like thee, am a member of The Fellowship. Thou must stand in unity with me for what I tried to do!"
"Thou art weak of character! Or otherwise thou wouldst understand what I tried to do!"
"I thank thee most enthusiastically! It will be our little secret then."
"My name is Morfin."
"I am a merchant who operates one of the most thriving businesses in Paws, which includes the slaughterhouse."
"Oh, I sell a little of this and that, here and there. Wherever there is a demand, I try to supply it."
"There is quite a demand for the venom of the silver serpent in certain areas, for instance."
"His name is Kessler."
"I sell mutton, beef, and ham. Which wouldst thou like?"
"The slaughterhouse is closed. Come around when it is open for business and I shall sell thee meats then."
"Some other time, perhaps."
"'Twill cost thee 3 gold each. Still interested?"
"How many dost thou want?"
"Here it is."
"Thou hast not the room for this meat."
"'Twill cost thee 2 gold each. Still interested?"
"How many dost thou want?"
"Here it is."
"Thou hast not the room for this meat."
"'Twill cost thee 4 gold each. Still interested?"
"How many dost thou want?"
"Here it is."
"Thou hast not the room for this meat."
"I would be thine humble servant shouldst thou help investigate the matter. Wilt thou?"
"I do hope the culprit will be revealed through other methods then."
"I thank thee for solving the mystery of who was behind it."
"Thou art a stranger in Paws. Beware the thief who roams this town! The culprit has stolen a quantity of my valuable silver serpent venom!"
"My supply comes from some old friends in Buccaneer's Den. Where they get it, who can say?"
"Here it is."
"I shall give it to thee when thine hands are not so full."
"I thank thee for ferreting out the thief and returning my snake venom."
"So Garritt was the culprit, eh? I am not surprised now that I think about it. I must keep closer tabs on my venom from now on."
"Of course, I do wish for thee to return my venom to me if thou hast recovered it."
You see an old woman who gives you a smile of grandmotherly sweetness. You can see immediately that her vision is poor.
"My name is Beverlea."
"Why, I run the House of Items here in Paws."
"Here in Paws the people have very little money, but it matters not, because they care for each other."
"There are many rare and fine things to be bought here in my shop. Bargains to be had nowhere else in all of Britannia."
"My store is now closed. I am usually open in the afternoons."
"Thou mayest take it then. I hope that thou dost enjoy it."
"Thou dost not have enough gold!"
"Then thou art free to take the rocking horse. It is thine!"
"Thou dost not have enough money to pay for it!"
"Thou mayest take thy bell. Use it in good health!"
"Thou dost not have enough money to buy it!"
"Not in the mood for a bell today?" She wrinkles her lips in the best attempt at a smile. "Perhaps something else will strike thy fancy."
"I thank thee. Thou mayest take thy glass."
"Thou dost not have enough money."
"I also have an old spittoon. It was once used by... a great many people. Thou mayest have it for a gold piece. Take it! Please!"
"I thank thee! Now thou canst go and please do not forget to take it with thee when thou dost leave!"
"Thou dost not even have a single gold piece! Nor the decency to inform me that I was wasting my time in talking with thee."
"I have many more things in my shop. Many things of high quality and great value as well. Please keep looking."
"I thank thee, kind customer. Thou mayest take thy lute. I can see that thou art a true artisan with an appreciation for quality."
"Thou canst not afford the lute!"
"Thou mayest take thy sextant! And may thou always have smooth sailing!"
"Thou dost not have enough money!"
"I am certain I have something that will interest thee. Browse to thine heart's content."
You see a beggar leaning on a crutch. His eyes shine like diamonds with sheer bitterness.
"My name is Komor."
"I was not always a beggar. Like Fenn and Merrick, I used to be a farmer, too. But times got worse, and times are always bad in Paws."
"Fenn and me have been friends since we were little tiny babes."
"Not in me wildest dreams, Komor.*"
"Yea verily, Fenn and I share all that we own. Which, in its totality, is the clothes on our backs and the snot in our throats!"
"A veritable wonderland, is it not?"
"The only thing worse than this miserable existence is having Merrick sniff around and try to recruit us! The bloody parasite!"
"Merrick sleeps in the shelter run by The Fellowship. They feed him, too. He had to join before they would help him."
"The shelter? 'Tis the large building filled with fawning hypocrites. Thou shouldst have little trouble finding it!"
"Wilt thou give me a bit of money?"
"I am unable to take thy money, for some strange reason."
"Hmpf! Thou dost not have that much gold! Thou art almost as poor as I!"
"Fine. Go on and live thy life in peace and happiness."
You see a beggar. You cannot tell from the look on his face whether he is about to laugh or cry.
"I know that boy Tobias is innocent of any wrong doing, no matter what Feridwyn and his Fellowship says."
"Be wary for there is a thief in this town! Some silver serpent venom was stolen from the merchant Morfin, who runs the slaughterhouse."
"I used to be a farmer in more prosperous times. I used to work with Komor and Merrick."
"He is my best friend and the bravest man I know."
"Merrick joined The Fellowship so he could live in their shelter, the poor sod."
"Hmf! If thou art so unfortunate as to want to live there, thou wouldst do better on the corner with Komor and I."
"At least we do not have to do what Merrick does. He recruits for The Fellowship."
"Do not worry. We shall not starve. Camille sends her son Tobias with food and clothing for us every so often."
"Camille is a good woman. She lives at the farm bordering the dairy."
"He is a fine lad, always willing to give us a hand. Unlike that rude urchin, Garritt."
"Tobias would not become involved with that sort of affair. I know for certain he is no thief."
"If thou art seeking out this venom thief, thou wouldst do well to ask Andrew about it."
"Andrew owns the dairy and lives across from Camille's farm and the slaughterhouse. He might have seen something."
"He is the son of Feridwyn and Brita, who run the shelter. Garritt crosses the road to avoid us."
"Wilt thou give me a bit of money?"
"It appears thou dost not have any money either!"
Fenn hangs his head low.
You see a cheerful, handsome young man who gives you a friendly wave as you approach.
"I am the owner and proprietor of the dairy here in Paws."
"Yes, I sell milk and cheese. Thou mayest find the dairy between Camille's farm and the slaughterhouse."
"A gallon will cost thee 3 gold. Art thou interested in buying some?"
"Thou hast not the room for the jug."
"I would be more than happy to sell thee a jug of milk, but for now the dairy is closed."
"I sell wedges for 2 gold each. Still interested?"
"How many dost thou want?"
"Here it is."
"Thou hast not the room for this cheese."
"I would be more than happy to sell thee some cheese, but for now the dairy is closed."
"A rather defensive young lad, I cannot say that I know that much about him."
"Of course everyone is up in arms about this business concerning the missing venom."
"Be wary, for there is a thief in this town! Some silver serpent venom was stolen from Morfin."
"Thou hast put the people in our town at ease by finding the culprit!"
"The slaughterhouse is run by Morfin, the merchant. He is always busy, coming and going at all hours, sometimes carrying things."
"He bought the slaughterhouse a few years ago, soon after he joined The Fellowship. I knew the previous owner."
You see a farm woman. She rubs her hands, which are covered with dirt and lines drawn by toil.
"My dreams have become reality. Thou art the Avatar, art thou not? I recognized thee immediately!"
"My name is Camille, Avatar. It is an honor to meet thee."
"I run a small farm here in Paws with my son, Tobias. I am a widow."
"I grow a few crops. Especially carrots and wheat."
"I believe my carrots are especially tasty. Wouldst thou like to purchase some? They would only cost thee one gold for three."
"How many dost thou desire?"
"I am sure thou wilt love them."
"Thou must first lighten thy load. Then I can give thee some delicious carrots."
Smiling gently, she hands you a carrot.
"If that is thy wish, Avatar, but they are quite good!"
"Be sure and take this to Thurston, the mill owner. He shall pay thee for thy trouble."
"Thou art carrying too much! Go put something down and I will give it to thee then."
"I understand that thou art busy on thy quest, Avatar."
"I know my son. I know that he is growing up unhappy. But I cannot believe that he would steal things."
"He is basically a good boy. He works hard and misses his father."
"Recently, our town has been plagued by a thief."
"Some silver serpent venom was stolen from the merchant Morfin who operates the slaughterhouse."
"I do not care what Feridwyn says! My son is no thief!"
You see a sulking lad, who doesn't seem to want to look you in the eye.
"I am still Tobias!"
"I am Tobias. I suppose I am to believe thou art someone important."
"I am too young to have a job. I just help my mother on the farm."
"Thou hast already met her."
"But thanks to thee I have more respect for her beliefs."
"Art thou truly the Avatar?"
"I knew that thou wert nothing but an imposter."
"My mother grows grain."
"Dost thou not know a farm when thou dost see one?"
"Surely thou canst find the farm. It is just north of the shelter."
Tobias looks at you as if he thinks you are a bit dim.
"It's that place just south of here. It's run by The Fellowship."
"He is one of the few people in town that I like. He is nice to us."
"The dairy is south of the shelter. Andrew -- the man who runs the dairy -- his father was friends with my father."
"There is a thief running free in Paws! He stole silver serpent venom from Morfin, owner of the slaughterhouse. No one knows who he is."
"I do not know anything about the stolen venom. I am falsely accused!"
You see the town bartender. She looks very busy, but she obviously takes pride in her work.
"I am Polly. It is a pleasure to meet thee."
"The owner and proprietor of the Salty Dog, the finest eating and drinking establishment in all of Paws, at thy service."
"However, the Salty Dog is now closed. Please return during business hours."
"For but 5 gold thou canst let one of our lovely rooms. Dost thou wish to stay here for the night?"
"Here is thy key for this inn. 'Twill only work once."
"Perhaps another evening then."
"Actually, there are no other inns or pubs in Paws. It is a small place, but our food and drink here is quite good, honestly."
"There is a thief in this town! Silver serpent venom was stolen from Morfin, the merchant who operates the slaughterhouse."
"He used to be a farmer. He is not a bad sort. He has just had a bad run of luck. Now he is a devout Fellowship member."
You see an aged gargoyle, bent and withered, with a regal bearing. He smiles gently.
"To be good to see you again, old friend. To be needing Draxinusom again so soon?"
"To be excellent! To have seen him? To know how he is faring? To be well?"
"Ah. To be too bad. To tell you Teregus wanted to know how he was doing."
"To be very good. To know Teregus will be pleased to learn that, as well!"
"Mine own Orb of the Moons exploded recently! To no longer be able to travel via Moongates. To be strange!"
"To be a shame. To be taking the news to Teregus of his youngling. To be wondering why we had not heard from Inamo recently."
"To tell you that his weanling, Inamo, is in Trinsic at this time."
"To inform you that The Fellowship is directed by two winged brethren. To be called Runeb and Quan."
"To be gone -- dead -- now."
The gargoyle has a pleasant expression on his face.
"To be known as Inforlem."
"To mean `make strong one.'"
"To train others in Terfin to be strong and powerful. To sell some weapons, also."
"To sell during shop hours. To ask you to come back to me at that time, please."
"To be a better warrior or mage?"
"To train during training hours. To ask you to come back to me at that time, please."
"To charge 50 gold for each training session. To be all right?"
"To apologize, but I must charge that amount!"
"To charge 50 gold for each training session. To be acceptable?"
"To apologize, but I must charge that amount!"
"To see there are troubles here, but to be unaware of the causes and solutions."
"To tell you Forbrak knows much about Terfin and its residents, and," he says, "about its conflicts."
"To be the tavernkeeper."
You are greeted by a friendly gargoyle.
"To be called Inmanilem, human. To wish information about Terfin?"
"To be Gargoyle for `make healed one.'"
"To be the healer."
"To feel sorry, but to be busy with other things now. To ask you to come back when I have the time to heal you."
"To tell you to seek out Draxinusom, human, or Forbrak. To have much information about Terfin."
"To be the tavernkeeper. To be very strong of body, and of mind."
"To tell you the other is called Vesper. To be in the desert in northeastern Britannia. To have also humans living there, unlike here."
"To be our leader. To live near the Hall of Knowledge."
"To be where the three altars of singularity are kept."
"To be Passion, Control, and Diligence. To be the values that most gargoyles hold as the key of our existence."
"There is a rival now -- The Fellowship. To know not if it is good or bad, but to know I do not follow it!"
"To have returned! To be glad to see you again, human," says Teregus. "To be welcome to the house of the altars. To be helpful to you?"
"To be called Teregus."
"To be sorry that we have lost Runeb. Perhaps to be for the best. To be certainly overjoyed to have avoided damage to the altars."
"To have brought me something, some evidence about the rumors?"
"To have been a fine young gargoyle. The pride of us all. To wish to know who was responsible for his dishonorable end."
"To be well?"
"To be good. To be hoping to hear from him soon."
"To be not well? To be terrible! To think there is anything to do to help?"
"Ah. Too bad. To be waiting long for news from him."
"To be caretaker and group leader for the altars of the three principles. To wish to make a donation?"
"Excellent. To which altar do you wish to donate?"
"Ah. To donate next time, perhaps."
"To be an excellent choice. To meditate at the shrine for you for a donation of 5 gold. To be willing to donate 5 gold?"
"To meditate for you this evening, human. To wish you well in your journeys."
The gargoyle gives you a menacing glare. Judging by his size, he would make a formidable foe.
"To be Runeb."
"To be Fellowship clerk."
"To have a branch here. To meet at usual time each night."
"To have more important things to do now. To ask me later, human."
The gargoyle seems to be too busy conducting the Fellowship meeting to speak with you now.
"To ask how I may assist, human."
"To be the one named Quan."
"To head The Fellowship in Terfin."
"To be the inner voice of guidance that lives in all creatures. To become more distinct and frequent with stronger Fellowship ties."
"To hold meetings at 9 p.m., in unity with other branches, human. To be welcome at our meetings."
"To have not seen human Fellowship officials in many days."
"To need the Triad for proper application to the individual gargoyle -- or person!"
"To talk to Runeb, Sarpling, and Quaeven."
"To have been the clerk of The Fellowship here."
"To be the clerk of The Fellowship here."
"To sell magics and such at his shop."
"To be in charge of the learning center."
"To be impossible for Runeb to be responsible." He smiles kindly. "To be a practical joke."
"To be too heinous a plot for Runeb." He frowns. "To be some kind of bad joke."
The gargoyle, a contented grin on his face, greets you with a handshake.
"To be known as Quaeven, human."
"To be master of the Recreation Facility and Learning Center. To be in charge of much information valuable to the gargoyle race."
"To be a member, too." He holds up his medallion. To have needed The Fellowship to become happy."
"To want to know about the organization or the tenets?"
"To be a group of spiritual seekers striving to reach the highest levels of gargoyle potential. To share with all gargoyles and humans."
"To share tenets and material well-being."
"To apply an optimistic order of thought through the Triad of Inner Strength."
"To be the three concepts of Strive for Unity, Trust your Brother, and Worthiness Precedes Reward."
"To be a good voice that will help me make choices, and to help win on Buccaneer's Den."
"To need a little more persuasion," he looks down, "but to be almost ready to join!"
"To be Betra, the provisioner. To feel confident he will join soon."
You see a frowning gargoyle.
"To be named `Silamo.'"
"To be also without wings, but to be respected as if he were winged."
"Gargoyles in The Fellowship."
You see a very distraught gargoyle.
"To give you greetings, human."
"To be able to call me Sarpling."
"To provide various magics and items in Terfin."
"To be the city in which you are located. To be the city of gargoyles."
"To know Quan is the Fellowship leader. To believe he gives good guidance." He appears thoughtful.~~ "To have spoken to Draxinusom?"
"To see Forbrak or Quaeven, then. To know they see all the citizens regularly."
"To see first, Draxinusom. To be leader of the city. To know many of the residents."
"To be an important part of my life. To support The Fellowship fully."
"To know nothing about the altars. To wonder what you mean?"
"To want reagents or jewelry and potions?"
"To sell you things when my shop is open."
"To greet you, human," the gargoyle says to Dupre. "To ask how well the study is progressing?"
"Why 'tis progressing nicely, friend Forbrak."
"-What- study?"
"Why, er, surely thou hast heard of the famous guides compiled for Brommer!"
"Aye, I have. But I'll be tarred if there is one detailing various drinking establishments!"
"Well, yes, er, 'tis, ah, something new. Now, how about a drink!"
The gargoyle tending bar lifts a tankard to you.
"To be Forbrak."
"To mean `strong arm' in the language of the gargoyles."
"To ask you to please come back when my shop is open."
"To know many of the residents in town, and some of the troubles."
"To know of only two. To see the conflict between the shrines and The Fellowship, and to know of the struggles of the wingless ones."
"To recommend you talk to their leader and their clerk."
"To know many gargoyles. To want to know about some of them?"
"To tell you about them later if you wish."
"To be named Inforlem. To be very strong."
"To be named Inmanilem."
"To be very friendly. To be called Quan."
"To be extremely violent." He shakes his head. "To be named Runeb, which means `red mist.' To be all that he leaves of a foe after combat."
"To be dead now, though."
"To be called Betra. To be one of two shopkeepers. To say the other is Sarpling."
"To be a sage. To be very well-educated, like Quaeven. To live here a long time."
"To be the gardener who lives to the east of the mountains."
The gargoyle welcomes you by making a sweeping motion with his open hand.
"To be named Betra. To be new to Terfin?"
"To welcome you back to Terfin."
"To be the word for `small valor.'"
"To be the seller of provisions."
"To be the town set aside for us gargoyles who wish to reside in our own culture."
"To have many things unique to our race -- other than our appearance -- that distinguish us from humans. To be different, but also equal."
"To have been put here by the humans. To be permitted to leave, and also to reside elsewhere, but to know that many humans do not like us."
"To sell to you during the hours of 9 in the morning and 6 in the evening. To be sorry, but to sell nothing before or after those hours."
"To trust him as far as I could throw him, and to certainly throw him as far as I could."
He turns to his right and speaks to no one.
He turns back to you and grins.
"What can I do for thee, Miss Fool?"
"What can I do for thee, Mr. Fool?"
He turns to his right and speaks to no one.
"What? Oh, really! Thou dost think this Avatar looks like the real thing? I doubt it, Lucinda. I doubt it very much."
He turns back to you and grins.
"I am the Sultan of Spektran! What, is thy brain the size of a pea? Do not answer, 'twas a rhetorical question."
Martingo then pulls out a banana and begins to peel it.
"Come on, do not insult mine intelligence. Surely thou dost know what a Sultan is! Canst not thou see mine harem?"
"Oh, forgive my manners! Wouldst thou like a banana?"
"Well, it shall cost thee 3 gold coins. Still want one?"
"Here thou art." Martingo hands you a banana and takes your gold. He turns to 'Lucinda' and whispers, "That rotter took my last banana!"
"Thou dost have wheat for brains! Thou hast not room for a single banana!"
"Broke, art thou? Too bad." Martingo sniffs. "Well, I am very rich, I must say."
"That's a relief. I only had one left."
"I already sold thee my last banana!"
"I collect magical items. The vault is full of them. Including this ring thou dost mention."
The large, muscle-bound man smiles pleasantly at you.
"I have taught many a warrior how to use his -- or her -- force against an opponent."
"I will train thee for 45 gold. Wilt thou pay?"
"Perhaps this would be a more appropriate topic when I am at work."
"Dost thou wish to make a sword?"
"Perhaps sometime when thou hast more time."
"Perhaps when thou hast fewer things to occupy thy pack, I can give this to thee."
"I can help thee with that when I am at work."
You are greeted with a stern look on this man's face.
"Thou mayest call me Sir Pendaran."
"I am a knight here in Serpent's Hold. 'Tis my job to help protect the citizens of Britannia."
"Well, I mean Lord British and his advisors."
"I live here in the hold with my lady."
"What! Thou art accusing me! Preposterous. I had nothing to do with it!"
The woman greets you with a curtsey.
"I am the provisioner of Serpent's Hold."
"And," she adds, "I also have a ship for sale shouldst thou be interested in that."
"Here is thy deed."
"Thou wishest to buy something?"
"A better time to buy would be when my shop is open."
The very serious man breaks into a half-smile as he greets you.
Horffe is standing at attention just behind him.
Standing at attention just behind him is a wingled gargoyle.
"I remember thee."
"Excellent."
"I have something that might interest thee."
"I am charged with overseeing the Hold."
"It is not a difficult job. Sir Richter and Sir Horffe insure that things run smoothly as often as possible."
"He is in charge of the Hold when I am otherwise occupied. He has seemed somewhat changed of late, but I trust him nonetheless."
"It is difficult to explain. He seems more disciplined," he gives a short laugh, "which, of course, is rather fitting for the Hold."
"He is the captain of the guards. I would have no other for his position. He is the most honorable warrior I have ever met."
"To thank you, Sir!"
"Of course. I understand. Thou dost have much more important matters to resolve. I will call for an official from Yew to handle this issue."
"I have sent for a judge from the High Court in Yew. I realize thou dost not have the time for such petty matters."
"Yes, yes, thou art very kind, but I am sure there are much more important matters thou must attend to. I thank thee none the less."
"Now I must apologize to Sir Horffe!"
"I will take care of this immediately!"
"I see," he eyes you suspiciously. "Thou art back for more, then? Thou'lt not trick me again, I warn thee."
"As I have told thee, I am called Richter."
"I am the armourer of the Hold."
"Yes, thou art in Serpent's Hold, home to many noble and valiant knights."
"I trust his ability as I trust no other. I cannot tell thee how proud I was when he chose me to be his second in command!"
"She is the Hold advisor, often giving guidance to the knights." His expression becomes wistful. "She is also quite, quite beautiful."
"I am sorry. A better time to discuss this would be when my shop is open."
"Why, yes, I see thou art a member too."
"I am sorry. A better time to discuss this would be when my shop is open."
"Art thou investigating this crime against mankind?"
"Mayhap when thou hast more room I can give them to thee."
"To be named Horffe."
"To be the Captain of the guard. To serve and protect the people of Serpent's Hold."
"To have been commanded to protect the people who live in Serpent's Hold and to maintain the general order of the knights."
"To direct you to Sir Denton, the tavernkeeper at the Hallowed Dock. To know more about the Hold and the people than I."
"To thank you for this information. To be pleased to know the identity of my assailant."
"To know nothing about that!"
"To have been very poor visibility, but to be positive I was scuffling with an armed knight."
"To know he will not believe one who openly defies The Fellowship."
"To know little about it. To like little about it."
"Of course!" He says, patronizingly. "How could I not recognize the great Iolo."
"As I told thee, my name is Sir Jordan."
"I sell bows and crossbows here at Iolo's South."
"The original branch is in Britain. But I do fine business here in the Hold."
"The great archer himself, Iolo, started that branch more than two hundred years ago."
"There are many who live within the walls of the Hold. Sir Denton, the bartender at the Hallowed Dock, knows them all."
"Weapons or missiles?"
"Greetings to thee, Sir Dupre. Art thou back again for thy study of wines for Brommer?"
The man before you seems to stare at you blankly.
"Serpent's Hold is located at precisely 53 degrees east and 165 degrees south."
"He is the Lord of Serpent's Hold. He is a capable leader and a fair man."
"Her healing skills are said to be unparalleled."
"Sir Horffe has chosen to use the Gargish syntax of our language so he may better maintain his cultural ties."
"Despite his blindness, Sir Jordan perceives objects around him very well. He is an excellent tinkerer, and can repair many items."
"He is the fighting instructor. In his spare time, he likes to make swords. Menion has been kind enough to give me one of his creations."
"Sir Pendaran is a knight of the Hold. He is very friendly, but I have been told he can be overbearing at times."
"She is the lady of Sir Pendaran. She has been helping me better my sense of humor."
"My jokes are very bad. If thou wouldst like, I will tell thee one."
"Why did the chicken cross the road?"
He almost appears disappointed, but it seems more likely that it's your imagination.
"No one else finds it humorous either. I will continue practicing to be funny."
"Oh. Thou hast heard it before."
"I thank thee. I always endeavor to be correct."
"I shall attempt to become better informed."
"Perhaps thou shouldst have these stone chips examined by the healer, Lady Leigh."
The woman smiles at you compassionately.
"My job is to provide counsel for Lord John-Paul and anyone else in need of guidance here at the Hold."
"Hast thou found my child?"
"Please, I beseech thee, continue thine hunt!"
"Thou art a no more than a coward. Get thee gone, coward!"
"I sense that thou wishest to know about the residents here at Serpent's Hold. Is this correct?"
"Very well. Come to me if thou changest thy mind."
"He is an extraordinary leader. Everyone looks up to him. Thou hast only to ask his captain."
"Lady Leigh is very skilled as a healer. I have yet to see her lose a patient."
"Hmmm. Well, Sir Richter has changed much recently -- ever since he joined The Fellowship. He seems a little less compassionate."
"I know Menion least of all. He is very quiet, spending most of his spare time weaponsmithing. The tavernkeeper may know more about him."
"He is a brave and hearty fighter, and," she smiles, "he is also a bit on the attractive side."
This attractive woman gives you an approving look.
"I am the Healer of Serpent's Hold."
"I am sorry, but I have too many other patients to help thee now. Perhaps when I next open my shop."
"Lord Jean-Paul is in charge of keeping the order here, but Sir Denton would be an even better source of information about Serpent's Hold."
"He is an easy man to find, for Sir Horffe hardly ever leaves his side. Watch for the tall, muscular gargoyle."
"If thou hast business about the town, and are not able to locate John-Paul, thou mightest wish to speak with Sir Richter."
"He is the armourer. His shop is in the back of the Hold."
"He is the tavern keeper at the Hallowed Dock, just inside the Hold's doors. He is wonderful at remembering and discussing important facts."
"I am afraid that I must be able to see them to examine them."
You see a young, tan, muscular, handsome man who exudes much verve and geniality.
"I am Ian."
"I am the director of this Meditation Retreat for Fellowship members."
"I manage the various activities and lead the initiates in their exercises in meditation."
"The activities of the retreat consist of philosophical training and studies."
"Oh, wouldst thou like to meditate with us, fellow brother?"
"Then here is thy key. Be happy! Oh, one more thing. There is a rule which must be followed."
"Oh. Then I cannot give thee a key."
"Art thou a Fellowship member?"
"Do not venture into the cave which thou wilt find inside the barrier. The cave is off-limits to attendees."
"I have not seen them in quite some time."
You see a broad-shouldered man with a solemn look about him.
"And thy name is?"
"I oversee the local branch of the Britannian Mining Company in Vesper. We mine many different minerals."
"Gold and lead."
"Those are The Fellowship's three basic principles: Strive for Unity, Trust thy Brother, and Worthiness Precedes Reward."
"They were the two Fellowship officials that were here! They only stayed for a minute or two. I have no idea where they are now."
"I work with Mara and a gargoyle named Lap-Lem."
"She is a fantastic worker. Better than most men I have mined with."
"She keeps the records at town hall."
"Yes, my wife, Yvella, and my daughter, Catherine."
You see a well-muscled woman who lifts her head in acknowledgement of your presence.
"What is thine?"
"'Tis good to meet thee!"
"Yvella is a lovely woman. She spends her days caring for their daughter, Catherine."
"He is in charge of managing the mines. Does a fair job, too. He usually joins me at the Gilded Lizard."
"His name is Auston. I like him, but I suspect that Liana is the one who truly keeps Vesper in order."
"That is the tavern here in Vesper. Yongi's the barkeeper. He serves a passing fair tankard of ale."
A strong, powerful man looks at you and nods acknowledgment.
"I teach others to be strong fighters. I am a trainer here in Vesper."
"I have taught here for many years. I like the town, but I am not too fond of some of the residents."
"The land to the northeast is a bit dry, but the oasis and nearby shores give us plenty of water for drinking and bathing."
"That one I do not like a bit. I do not trust him. He reminds me of those gargoyles."
"I have already heard that some of my fellow residents have had things stolen by those wretched creatures."
"I can train thee for 40 gold. Is this all right?"
A very neat, well-groomed, kindly man stands before you.
"Early to bed, early to rise, makes Jack a dull boy."
"Thou wishest to make a purchase. Excellent. But remember, a gold piece saved is a gold piece not spent."
"About whom doth thou wish to know? Auston? The gargoyles? Liana? Cador? Perhaps Yongi?"
"Liana is a very fine young woman who clerks at the townhall."
"Cador oversees the mines. He and his wife, Yvella, have a lovely daughter named Catherine."
"Ah, me good friend, Dupre. What kinna do fer ye this fine day?"
"Ah, master Yongi, always ready to offer a tankard of thy finest."
"And ye are?"
"Why, only the other day one attacked Blorn. G'won, ask him about it."
"He be in here every night after work. Good man, hard worker."
"She works with Cador at the mines. Hard as stone, that one. She be more man than most of the men in town."
"There be one who knows what's what. He knows what be wrong with this town! Gargoyles! That is what be wrong. He hates 'em, 'e does."
"He was even accosted by one of those jackals not too long ago. Ask 'im about it, why don't ye."
"Be ye wantin' food or drink?"
The man before you narrows his eyes to slits as he sees you.
"Blorn, if thou must know."
"I don't believe I wish to tell thee."
"Here! I hope it strangles him!" He thrusts the amulet into your palm. "And I hope he bloody strangles thee, too!"
"Thou hast killed the jackal?"
"Well, I am sure thou wilt have time soon enough, for he will surely head this way to attack me again."
You see a middle-aged man with a furrowed brow, as if he is constantly worried.
"Please call me Auston."
"She is my clerk. She is very efficient. I couldn't govern Vesper without her."
"I have not seen that Fellowship couple for many, many days. I have no idea where they could be now."
You see a short woman with a distracted look on her face.
"What is thy concern?"
"I am the Mayor's clerk. I am responsible for keeping track of official records and documents in Vesper."
"I like the town, but 'tis so far from Britain that it attracts some truly... unusual people."
"I feel bad about the things I said now that she is gone. Too bad she was killed in that bar fight."
"Mara? She needs to learn how to act like a woman. Her manly attitude doth not fool anyone."
"He is nice, I suppose, but he is also a doddering old fool. I do not think he hath had a brain for more than a decade."
"Now there is a disgusting creature for thee. I think they were better named back when we called them daemons!"
"Well, there are Cador, Yvella, and Zaksam -- those are the normal ones."
"He is the trainer. Quite a good fighter from what I hear."
"'Tis too bad he is dead. I have heard many compliment his abilities as a leader at the mines."
"Cador is the head of the Britannian Mining Company branch here in Vesper."
"She is Cador's wife."
You are greeted with a smile from this gargoyle.
"To be known to you as Lap-Lem."
"To mean `rock one.'"
"To be a miner. To be now the only miner of my race in this town."
"To know of many gargoyles who work in the other mines, but to see the Vesper mine has only humans now."
"To be ashamed. To want nothing more than return of my possession from human."
"To have had an amulet with sentimental value. To have been stolen by the human." He looks down at his feet. "To want it back."
"To have returned with amulet?"
"Oh. To not have amulet with you." He perks up and smiles. "To return later with amulet!"
"I take care of my daughter, Catherine, while Cador is at work."
"Cador is mine husband. He is the overseer at the Britannian Mining Company here in Vesper."
"He is often at the tavern at this time. I do wish he would not go there every night with that... that... woman!"
"I agree, thou ought to consider it."
"That is too bad. I believe thou wouldst be perfect for the office."
"He is our town advisor. Very wise man that Eldroth. He also sells provisions."
"Thou knowest where my daughter doth go at noon?"
"Wilt thou tell me?"
"If only her father were here today, he would show that loathsome creature his place!"
"Just wait until I tell her father about this! He and Mara will certainly take care of the situation.!"
"Oh, well. I thank thee for thy concern."
You see a very large, strong wingless gargoyle.
"To answer to For-Lem."
"To mean `strong one.'"
"To do odd jobs for others. Also, to record gargoyle legends in written form."
"To be friends with Lap-Lem, and know he is a good miner. Also to know Ansikart, who reminds us of Singularity in these troubled times."
"To have many interesting stories about our race. To be writing them down for future generations."
"To ask how to help you?"
"To be called Ansikart."
"To mean `anti-dry-master.'"
"To serve food and drink to others."
"To apologize, but to ask you to return when I am open."
"To know all the gargoyles in Vesper. To want to know about specific ones?"
"To warn you that many hold resentment for their poor treatment. To be careful, please."
"To be named Wis-Sur."
"To be a great mind, knowledgeable in many things."
"To have once been a great mind. To be now paranoid and reclusive. To feel pity for Wis-Sur."
"To be Aurvidlem. To have become sullen lately, but to know not why."
"To be a laborer for the town."
"To mine for the Mining company here. To be the only gargoyle still mining here." He nods his head.~~ "To be very tolerant, like For-Lem."
You see a winged gargoyle with an authoritative disposition.
The winged gargoyle in front of you has a wild look about him.
"To be named Wis-Sur, which means `wise sun.'"
"To sell magic to others."
"To be interested in spells, reagents, or potions?"
"To be a provisioner in Vesper."
"To perform assorted duties for town. To be a good, strong worker."
"To be a miner for the Britannian Mining Company."
"To sell the few items I possess."
"To suspect you are wasting my time!"
The gargoyle stares at you, displeased at the interruption.
"To have no desire to tell you. To demand to know who you are!"
As the gargoyle looks up at you, anger crosses his face. He stands quickly, overturning his drink.
"To have none!" He glares fiercly at you."
The gargoyle is obviously displeased with the intrusion of your presence.
"To have no desire to tell you. To demand to know who you are!"
"To have none!" He glares fiercly at you."
The gargoyle standing before you has a sour expression on his face.
"To be called Aurvidlem. To recognize you to be the Avatar."
"To provide provisions for others in Vesper."
"To be not selling at this time. To come back tomorrow to buy provisions."
"To have only a few gargoyles living in town. To know mainly Wis-Sur and Ansikart, and to know of some wingless ones."
The man in the prison greets you with a rather large smile.
"The Fellowship teaches people to follow their leaders like sheep. Canst thou think of better guidance?"
"Well, apparently I hadn't striven hard enough to be deserving of the loan I... acquired from the money box upstairs."
"Well... I was going to return the money eventually. I just needed it to win more in the games."
"Is not that the finest rack thou hast ever seen? Exquisite workmanship, beautiful detail."
You see a gorgeous young woman with seductive eyes.
"Hello. Art thou sure thou dost not really want to speak with Roberto?"
"Say, we should get to know one another better!"
"And female, as well! And I thought I had seen it all..."
"Thou canst just call me... Wench."
She blows you a kiss.
"Thou dost want to join me in the Community Room?"
A while later, after the woman has shown you more tricks than a mage on stage, you emerge from the Community Room a much happier Avatar.
You see a handsome, muscular man with an air of mischief about him.
"Glenno at thy service!"
"The entrance fee is 300 gold. Everything is included in this fixed price. No tips are necessary. Dost thou want to enter?"
"Please! Make thyself at home. If thou dost want a drink, let me know."
"Please come visit in the late evening hours when our hosts and hostesses are here!"
"The water is guaranteed to be pure, warm and cleansing."
"Thou canst lie in comfort among the many soft cushions and pillows. Get to know thy neighbor. Get to know thy neighbor 'very well'!"
You see a beautiful young woman with a tropical air.
"Hello, dear. Art thou sure thou dost not want to speak with Roberto?"
"All right, honey. Whatever heats thy blood..."
"What is thy name?"
"Oh please! Not another Avatar!"
Martine takes a deep breath, then smiles.
"Well, honey, it does not matter who thou art. We shalt have a good time anyway."
"'Tis important that thou art comfortable whilst visiting The Baths."
"'Tis a fabulous place to work. I absolutely love it. I would not work anywhere else. I have more gold than I could possibly spend."
"Thou dost want to join me in the Community Room?"
"That's all right, honey."
"I hope to see thee again soon, honey!"
You see a strikingly handsome man with eyes that pierce your soul.
"Hello. Uhm, art thou sure thou dost not really want to speak with Wench or Martine?"
"What is thy name?"
"I am known in these parts as Roberto."
"Thou dost want to join me in the Community Room?"
You see the meanest, toughest-looking guard you have ever seen in Britannia.
"I am the guard at the House of Games. I rid the place of trouble-makers."
"That would be Mister Gordy, the overseer of the House of Games. Thou might find him in his office during business hours."
"Thou dost not need to know any more."
Sintag glares at you.
"What torture chamber? Did I say torture chamber?"
"I do not know any man by that description."
"Do I look like I am working now? Leave me alone. Come to the House of Games during normal business hours."
"Dost thou want the key?"
"Here it is."
"Thou art carrying too much!"
"Suit thyself."
The pirate chews on something in his mouth before replying. "Hi," he finally says.
"We were playing cards in the pub. Damn me if he did not deal from the bottom. I can usually spot tricks like that, but he was good!"
"I shall just remain here alone and destitute! Where is my dagger? I shall slit my throat!!"
You see an aging pirate who might have looked extremely dangerous at one time.
"My name be Mole, it be! Do not ask me how I came by it. 'Tis a long story."
"Thou dost really want to hear it? 'Tis very long."
"Very well. How 'bout if I just say that I was born in a cave, so my mother named me Mole."
"Mine old mates, like my friend Blacktooth, have fallen by the wayside."
"Oh, he was some old pirate with a temper. He's probably dead now, if he knows what's good for him!"
You see a man whose sinewy body is like steel. The glint in his eye tells you that he is no fool.
"I am Lucky... in all things."
"In truth there are few places where I have not been and little that I have not done."
"I charge 35 gold for a training session. Doth this meet with thine approval?"
"I shall be happy to show thee my ways of the world during normal business hours at my residence -- afternoons and evenings."
You see a fat, cheerful-looking merchant.
"Hello! How art thou, my friend?"
"Budo the Fourth at thy service! 'Tis a fine day today, is it not?"
"Budo's carries nothing but the finest quality armour in all Britannia. I have all the best types of equipment available."
"Budo's offers thee excellent weaponry with superb craftsmanship. Thou wilt not find a better buy for thy money anywhere else!"
"Budo's also carries a variety of useful things for thy convenience."
"But I have already sold thee the deed to 'The Lusty Wench'! She was the only ship I had at this particular time! I am sorry!"
"Thou art carrying too much, my friend! Unload thyself of some of thy belongings and I will sell thee the deed to this beautiful ship."
"But thou dost not have enough gold! Perhaps thou shouldst visit the House of Games and increase the bulges in thy pockets!"
"But thou wilt never see a ship like this one anywhere in the world! Too bad!"
"I do not mind telling thee. The Fellowship shares in one half of my profit."
You see a pirate who is elegantly dressed and obviously rich. He reeks of pomade.
"We shall see about that!"
"I hope to see thee there during business hours."
"And that is 'Mister' Gordy, to thee!"
"Yes, what can I do for thee?"
He grins, very pleased with himself.
He gestures toward your Fellowship medallion. "Thou shouldst not have any problem." He winks and wiggles his eyebrows.
"I am Mandy."
"If thou dost want food or drink, or perhaps a room, please say so."
"Please come to the Tavern then and I will be happy to serve thee."
"We serve a good plate of slop, if I do say so myself! That Silverleaf is something. Thou shouldst try that."
"I can offer thee wine and ale."
"Look there now. Thou hast too many bundles to take the room key!"
"Here is the room key. It is good only until thou dost leave the inn."
"All right. Some other time."
"Best bloody swill thou wilt eat on the face of the earth!"
"His family has been on Buccaneer's Den for generations. Comes on a trifle too strong with the barking of wares, if thou dost ask me."
"She is a very private person. Works at The Baths. I have not spoken three words to her in my life."
You feel your Cube vibrate, but somehow you know that Mandy would have told you the truth without it.
"He scares me to death."
"Well, he is a killer. Some think he is the one responsible for the murder that happened last year."
You see a well-dressed pirate with oil in his hair.
"I am Smithy."
"I can explain the rules and how to play for thee. I also make sure that one does not cheat."
"Please do come and try thy skill when the facility is open for business."
"If thou art caught cheating, thou wilt be arrested. And we do prosecute!"
"For which game dost thou want to hear the rules?"
"That is all right."
"Place thy bet on the green spot at the end of the lane which corresponds to the trough in which thy rat is running."
"Fine then. Thou art on thine own."
You see a young entertainer who beckons to you.
"I am Paul. My colleagues' names are Meryl and Dustin."
"We perform a Passion Play about The Fellowship. It costs only 2 gold per person to see. If thou dost want us to perform it, please say so."
"A Passion Play is a morality tale performed on stage."
"It would be much simpler to view the play."
"I am sorry to say we are on our break. Please return to the stage area during normal hours."
"Wouldst thou like to see our Passion Play?"
This is a woman who seems pleasant and welcoming. "I am proud to meet the Avatar," she says, beaming.
"My name is Ellen."
"I do the bookkeeping at the Fellowship Branch. I work with mine husband, Klog."
"'Tis awful, is it not? Of course, I was home with Klog all night."
"Perhaps thou couldst call it a 'confident philosophy'. We meet here at the branch office every night."
"The Fellowship has branches all over Britannia. It is a most popular philosophical society."
"Mine husband Klog is a wonderful branch leader. He is an inspiration to all of the Trinsic members."
You see a very authoritative-looking older man who looks at you with thoughtful concern.
"My name is Kessler."
"I run the apothecary shop here in Britain."
"I am studying the effects of a particular substance known as silver snake venom. But I am encountering a number of difficulties."
"My greatest difficulty is in finding any significant quantity of silver snake venom. But it is by no means mine only difficulty."
"Thou dost not have any vials of venom!"
"Thou art too burdened to carry any more money."
"I see thou dost have a quantity of silver snake venom in thy possession. Perhaps we should talk further."
"Very well."
"The Apothecary is closed. It is open from noon until midnight. Thou mayest return then."
"Be sure to come back if thou dost ever need any potions."
The man before you stretches and inhales deeply.
"My price is 45 gold for each training session, but I will also teach thee what little I know about magic. Is this acceptable?"
"Forgive me, I am a bit overzealous in my search for students. I hope thou wilt return in the future."
"Thou shouldst try some. The monks have been making it for more than three hundred years!"
"It is located just behind the court. And," he grins, "I am proud to say that is at least one thing about which I know nothing."
"He is the undertaker who lives just north of the Brotherhood."
"I have yet to meet her, but I know she loves animals. I have seen her playing with the deer and squirrels that inhabit this region."
Before you is a skinny man with a silly smile on his face. He is holding a lantern in one hand and a dirty spoon in the other.
"My name is Owings," he says giving you a rapid up and down handshake. "Pleased to meet thee."
"My partner's name is Malloy."
"Thou dost already know my partner, Malloy."
You are greeted by a man with a sour expression.
"What kind of bloody stupid question is that? I am in the prison! What kind of job could I possibly have?"
"Yeah, stupid question."
"Yes, they are likely to keep me in them the next time until I rot. Or, at the very least, until I die from the troll's lashings."
"Well, so few people are, really."
"Well, I am certainly not guilty of such an act!"
"The troll beats me many times during the day. I will not be able to survive for much longer."
You see a naked man who looks a bit wild. He is not in the least concerned that he has on no clothes.
"I am Murray."
"Hey, what job? I am having a great time here. Leave me alone!"
"They make me itch so I do not wear any."
"Mmm. Mama! Me Papa. She Mama. We make zug-zug. Maybe someday make Boy or Girl!"
"They won't bother thee if thou dost not bother them."
"They friendly if we no hurt them."
"Sure. They know Mama and me. We are their friends."
"I told thee. We have been here a long time."
"Mama and me live in cave since babies."
"Avatar! They must have been abandoned in here! Why, they must be brother and sister!"
You see an attractive, studious-looking man.
"I study the local flora, fauna, and geography here at the monastery."
"There are many beautiful plants in this area. I am working on learning about all of them."
"Many different species of animals reside in the forest. I have encountered some fascinating ones in my studies."
"Our order is called the Brotherhood of the Rose."
"She raises the most lovely flowers that I have ever seen! Thou must see them to believe of their existence."
"The honey from the caves is quite tasty, but rarely can one get it without a fight. The Bee Caves can be a rather dangerous place."
"If thou wishest, I can give thee a smoke bomb that will repel the bees for a short time. Dost thou want it?"
"Here it is."
"Perhaps thou shouldst lighten thy load before taking the bomb."
"Very well. But be careful if thou dost happen by the caves!"
"Hello, good friend," says Malloy. "A pleasure to see thee again."
"Someone told us his name. Let me see if I can remember it... Sullivan, I think it was. Funny name for an Avatar, but there thou art!"
"Owings and myself are now involved in a very important special project, but it is a secret. Can we trust thee?"
"The Britannian Mining Company has asked us to dig a tunnel to New Magincia! It will revolutionize the mining industry."
"Owings, have a look at that schedule and find out how we are doing."
The warrior carries himself with confidence.
"I am a sell-sword. But at the moment, I am trying to help my friend regain his senses."
"I was not about to let Cosmo venture down here by himself. So, I offered to accompany him, as did Kallibrus."
He points to the gargoyle.
"He met her in Jhelom. She was serving in the Bunk and Stool. Apparently it was `love at first sight,' as he calls it."
"I do not know who `they' are, but that is what they say, is it not?"
The friendly-looking monk signals you over to him.
"I am a monk here at the Abbey. I am working on an alchemical mixture."
"Sadly, I am so involved with my studies that I have no time to visit the surrounding area or learn any new faces."
"Surely thou knowest of what I speak? Meditation, silence, aesthetics, ascetics, and so forth."
"Art thou sure? I will give thee information in return."
"I will tell thee about Lord British, The Fellowship, or Buccaneer's Den if thou bringest me the potion of invisibility."
"Thou dost not have a potion to give," he says sadly. "My research will again have to wait."
You see a large man with an almost cunning, erudite aura about him.
"My profession -- rather, my destiny -- is to learn and know all things. I came to New Magincia to build my workshop and do so."
"This is my workshop. I peruse my books and papers here. Occasionally, I invent things, such as this crystal ball."
"True knowledge is the only way to complete fulfillment."
"They are cunning and two-faced. I am working on obtaining proof of this."
"I am documenting this information in my notebook."
"It is all contained within the notebook."
"Thou dost suspect The Fellowship of foul deeds? Well then! Thou art perceptive indeed! Perhaps we are working toward the same goal!"
"It is hidden in a safe place, along with mine other treasured sources of knowledge."
Alagner listens as you tell him you would like to borrow the notebook.
"Very well. Dost thou know the answers to the questions of Life and Death?"
"Alas, he is a poor soul who is doomed to haunt his abode throughout eternity."
"Thou hast spoken to the Tortured One and learned the answers to the questions of Life and Death?"
"Then what are the answers?"
"Do not return until thou hast done so."
The ghostly man displays a face filled with pain.
"Forsythe is the mayor. Perhaps thou canst find him in the Town Hall, shouldst thou wish to speak with him."
"He was once a master of all things metal. Now all he does, so I am told, is work endlessly on that blasted cage!"
"I know nothing about it other than that it was necessary to put the liche in it before my... potion could work on him."
"The pain is gone, but only to be replaced by his obsessive anger. The poor fool does not even realize he is dead! He thrives on his anger."
"I doubt he would believe even his own death, let alone care."
"Thou hast not rid us of the evil Liche yet. Fulfill this quest as thou hast agreed and I shall give thee the answers thou dost seek."
You see a scholarly-looking man with a friendly expression.
"Why, thou mayest call me Brion."
"I am the head of the observatory here in Moonglow," he says proudly. "This is where the telescope is kept."
"Why, I love living here in Moonglow. I very much like the people here."
"Hast thou spoken with my twin, Nelson? He heads the Lycaeum. Or Elad? And surely thou knowest about the mage, Penumbra."
"Thou hast not heard? Why, two hundred years ago she put herself to sleep."
"I am very excited, for shortly a very rare event will occur!"
"Before thou dost depart, let me show thee a few of my trinkets. Here is my..."
You see a scholarly-looking man with a friendly expression.
"Thou mayest call me Nelson."
"I am the Lycaeum head here in Moonglow, but," he leans close to you, "mine assistant, Zelda, does most of the work."
"I love the island and the people. Mostly the people."
"His name is Brion. People often mistake us for each other, but I think we are nothing alike -- he got all the looks -and- the brains!"
"She was once an adept mage, but ever since the wizards began losing their, er, faculties, she followed suit."
"She rarely has time for visitors, but I know she takes on students every now and then."
"Oh. Oh well," he shrugs in an attempt at indifference. "She was not truly important anyway."
"Of course thou mayest have free reign of the building. But first," he grins, "let me show thee my..."
"This solid brass bookstand has matching, overhanging candleholder for late-night exploration in literature. I invented it myself."
"'Twas just here..." he scratches his chin. "Oh well, never mind."
"This," he says, holding a solid-gold sheet shaped like a maple leaf, "I purchased at an auction for only half of its value."
The man greets you with a pleasant smile.
"I am the new branch leader of The Fellowship here in Moonglow."
"She has left for Britain on important business," he smiles. "I do not expect her return any time soon."
"What then," he asks, "is the problem?"
"Excellent, then."
"What!" he appears stunned. "Died? How is that possible?"
"Ah, well. Keep searching. I am positive thou wilt come across some information soon!"
"Really!" he seems genuinely surprised. "How, ah, wonderful." Then I guess the murder has been avenged."
"Ah, yes, Moonglow. It is a pleasant town. It is possible to find all sorts of people here."
"I am sorry, but I prefer not to gossip."
"As is customary, our meetings are at 9 p.m. Please feel free to join us."
"Thou shouldst really return thy medallion to the person from whom it came. Only Fellowship members are permitted to wear them."
"If thou hast a free moment, I would be quite happy to discuss our philosophy with thee."
"Relax, friend, thou wilt hear when the time is right."
"I have not seen them since they gave me my training session, many days ago."
"Shhh! Talk to me about it later," he whispers, gesturing subtly towards Balayna, "when she is not around."
"Excellent, my friend."
"Ah, well, thou art carrying too much. I will simply have to save it for when I have time to talk with her. Thank thee anyway."
"Very well. I will have to save it for when I have time to talk with her. Thank thee anyway."
You see a jovial man with a wide smile. It is obvious he is enjoying his life.
He notices your medallion.
"Fellow member! How art thee! I hope thy journey to Buccaneer's Den was not too troublesome! Welcome to our island!"
The Cube vibrates.
"And I recognize thee as the Avatar! I know that thou art condemned to die!"
Danag smiles as if he had just said that you had been invited to dine with the king.
"I am interim Fellowship Branch leader here on Buccaneer's Den. Our regular leader, Abraham, is away on Fellowship business at the moment."
"Especially since we would help them build an empire of sin and gluttony out of Buccaneer's Den."
You notice the Cube has been vibrating while Danag was speaking.
"Now it is the center of corruption in all of Britannia. The pirates are all controlled by The Fellowship."
The Cube continues to vibrate.
"As a result, The Baths and The House of Games are two of the most profitable establishments in the country."
"It is truly a jewel in the crown that is Britannia."
"Why, it is a gambling parlor! The Fellowship certainly takes in a bundle from that place!"
The Cube vibrates.
"Uhm... er... he is also a coordinator for executions and he cheats at cards."
"I do not own one. The only people that do are Elizabeth and Abraham, Batlin, and Hook himself. Hook probably keeps his key in his abode."
The Cube vibrates.
"Actually, I believe they are on their way to the Isle of the Avatar to take care of our new Special Project."
You see a rather reserved-looking gargoyle.
Kallibrus smiles and greets you with a nod.
"To be known as Kallibrus."
"To be not my true name. To have been given this name by Cairbre, who could not pronounce my Gargish name."
"To work as a warrior for hire most of the time. To be between jobs now. To help friend Cosmo find unicorn."
"To have been partners for many, many years. To have been bonded for even longer!"
"To have known him for many years, but not as long as Cairbre. To be good friend."
"To be unsure but to think it has something to do with a woman and, to say how... sex?"
"To know nothing about this word. To mean something similar to reproduce?"
"To tell you gargoyles reproduce differently than humans seem to, but to explain too poorly to be useful."
The wide-eyed expression of this youth seems indicative of his naivete.
Lasher stares blankly at you. His mouth hangs open. "Very well. Then I shall tell thee what a unicorn is.
Lasher shakes his head sadly. "No, thou merely thinks thou dost know what a unicorn is, but I shall tell thee the truth.
"A unicorn is one of a family of nature spirits that were once called upon to aid a very powerful wizard many, many years ago."
"Oh, do not be coy with me, Avatar. Thou dost know very well the purpose of a unicorn. ~~We are foolproof virgin detectors!"
"Not only were we bound in service to this wizard for a thousand years, but he also placed a dreadful curse upon us."
"Yes, well, I did not wish to get this personal with thee, but if thou does not mind, art thou a virgin?"
"I thought as much!" Lasher starts to pace nervously. "If thou wouldst not mind standing back a bit, I would be most appreciative."
"Yes, I could tell the answer to my question before thou didst even speak it. Art thou a virgin by choice or by circumstance?"
"Well, I am sure thou wilt find the right person one day."
"That is too bad, I am very sorry. I would love to be able to help thee, but that is no longer my purpose."
"Oh, I do not know. It has been so long since I was personally involved in such matters. Art thou seeking love or art thou seeking lust?"
"Oh, she must be quite a ravishing maiden if he is willing to risk life and limb to come down here and prove his virtue."
"All right. My name is Myrtle. But I like to be called Mama."
"Me live with Papa here in cave!"
"Well, I would not call it a job, but I just live here in Bee Cave with Papa."
"We do our best to eat, sleep, and love each other down here isolated from the rest of society."
"Mmmmmmm. Papa! Mama love Papa!"
"He's mostly a lazy beggar, but I still love him."
"Cave good. Warm. Safe."
"It's been good to us. It keeps us warm. We are able to find food. I do not miss the old life."
"Once again a local manifestation addresses the Xorinite dimension."
"The Council represents what 'your' language defines as 'government'."
"'Xorinia' recognizes 'your' usefulness. 'I' shall be here. Human entities will call 'my' activity 'waiting'."
Hook points to you.
"Yes, rest, my friend. Rest and heal, so that you are strong and able to face the perils before you. Pleasant dreams!"
"Go inside. Tell them you are the Avatar!"
"Thank you for the information in the notebook, Avatar! It was most useful! Ha ha ha ha ha!"
"Do not go in! It is a trap! Do you not see? It is a trap!"
"You are not going to trust the Time Lord are you? Careful, my friend -- do not believe him!"
"Do not go in! You will surely die!"
"Avatar, you are not welcome here!"
"Are you sure? Think again!"
"At least one sign is true, and at least one sign is false."
"Two of these signs are either true or false!"
"No no no! Think again!"
"Each sign could be either true or false!"
"Stop the Avatar! I will come through the Black Gate now! Do not let him near!"
"Poor Avatar... poor, poor Avatar..."
"Well done, my friend! You are truly an Avatar!"
"You are travelling in the wrong direction, my friend!"
"Go away!!"
"That is precisely the thing to do, Avatar!"
"You had best not do that, Avatar!"
"Do you really know where you are going, Avatar?"
"Yes, that is the proper direction to travel, Avatar."
"Ha ha ha ha ha ha!"
"Ho ho ha ha heh heh heh!"
"There. It is done. Now take the blasted thing to Mordra. She will instruct thee in its use."
"Pleasant dreams."
"What is your liberty worth?"
"Very well. Thou shalt remain in prison until we see fit to release thee."
"An unfortunate decision, my friend."
BRITANNIAN MINING COMPANY ~~ ~~log.
To win the game, a player must "push" the treasure to the back row of squares on his side of the board.
After a short while you notice that the edge has definitely improved.
That last blow was perhaps a bit too hard, It'll take a while to hammer out the flaws.
The blade has been worked as well as it can be. It will take some form of magic to make this sword blank into a usable weapon.
Erethian looks irritated by your question, "'Tis not a hindrance for one sensitive enough to feel the ridges the ink makes on the page.
The mage's eyes begin to glow softly. "My magic is strong enough to tear down the fabric of reality and reconstruct it as I see fit.
Erethian looks irritated by your question, "'Tis not a hindrance for one sensitive enough to feel the ridges the ink makes on the page.
"Yes, Master. How may I serve thee..." The wavering visage in the mirror hesitates for a moment, "Thou art not my master."
His somewhat polished veneer seems to be unravelling at the edges in his anticipation of freedom.
"Well, if thou keepest thy promise to release me, I'll be free of that lice-ridden, flea-bitten, old mage."
Arcadion looks as if he's about to force his way through the mirror, then once again masters his incredible rage.
The gem sparkles up at you, "Yes, master. How may I serve thee?" Arcadion's voice is subdued.
"If thou dost wish me to bond the gem to the sword, thou hast but to command me, master."
"It will be done!"
Slowly, the sword settles into its original shape, except for the blue gem glowing in the hilt.
There is a flash of what can only be described as black light and the sword is wrenched out of your grasp and falls to the ground.
"The sword and gem must be in thy hands for the bonding to be accomplished."
"My name is still Arcadion, although my prison has changed."
"I am now thy servant. What is thy bidding, master?"
"Perhaps I misjudged thee, master." He pauses for a thoughtful moment, "Mayhap in time thou canst call me friend as well as ally."
"What dost thou seek of me..." A pause, "Master?"
"Dost thou seek to torment me with useless questions, or may I be of some service..." A long pause, "Master."
"I am the Shade Blade. My destiny is to serve thee until we are..." The sword pauses, "parted."
"I needs must be in thy hand, master, if thou wishest to use my powers."
"Which of my powers dost thou seek to use?"
"The Talismans of Principle must be placed upon the Dark Core like wedges in a pie."
"As thou wish, master. I but seek to serve thee."
"Yes! I have long sought the end of Lord British, my traitorous master."
You find yourself unable to respond, and your muscles are clenching as if to lash out with the wicked blade in your hand.
"Alas master, this one is protected by a power greater than mine. His destiny lies elsewhere."
"Very well, master. If thou cannot dispatch this foe thyself, I shall do it for thee."
"Would that I had such power. That artifact would allow me to return to my home plane if only I could unlock its secrets."
"Ah... home again. I never tire of rocky little islands. Dost thou truly wish to go to the forsaken Isle of Fire?"
"It is good. Sense returns to the Virtuous Wonder. Thou art truly without peer in the arena of thought, master."
"And what, pray tell, is the intended target of thy immense and most puissant wrath, O' Master of Infinite Destruction?"
"Vas Ort Rel Tym..."
He stops mid-spell and begins another, pointing towards the Talisman of Infinity.
"Vas An Ort Ailem!"
"I will give him mine!"
You watch in stunned horror as Bollux pierces his chest open with his fingers.
He pulls forth a heart-shape stone and, with a final flurry of action, drops the stone upon Adjhar's chest as he falls dead to the ground.
"This is no time to sleep! Look alive!"
"Very well. Dost thou promise to return my notebook?"
"Then go find it! Thou hast the key!"
"Then I cannot let thee borrow the notebook!"
"To make what purchase?"
"To be all right."
"To want how many?"
"To be agreed!"
"To have not the ability to carry that much!"
"To be without enough gold!"
"To want another item?"
"What wouldst thou like?"
"Nothing at all? Well, alright."
She bats her eyelashes at you and grins.
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"'Tis thine!"
"Hmmm. Thou dost not have enough gold!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"To purchase what item?"
"To be fine."
"To want to buy how many sets of twelve?"
"To want to buy how many?"
"To be done!"
"To be unable to carry that much, human."
"To have not the right amount of gold!"
"To buy something else?"
"Now that thou hast worked a little for The Fellowship, and hast learned what we stand for, dost thou still wish to join?"
"The Ceremony shall begin."
He pours a glass of wine into a crystal goblet and takes a sip.
"Excellent, Avatar!"
The other Fellowship members cheer with pleasure.
"Hast thou reconsidered thy task? Wilt thou deliver the package to Elynor in Minoc?"
"To make what purchase?"
"To be acceptable."
"To want how many sets of twelve?"
"To want how many?"
"To accept!"
"To be unable to travel with that much weight!"
"To have not the money for that!"
"To make another purchase?"
"How many portions wouldst thou wish to sell?"
"Oh, my. We truly do need the meat. Well, perhaps next time."
"Thou cannot sell me what thou dost not have! Now, truly...!"
"Oh, dear. Thou cannot possibly carry this much gold! Perhaps thou mayest return when thou hast dropped something else."
"What dost thou want for thy refreshment?"
"It is thine!"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Wouldst thou care for something else?"
"I cannot charge a master such as thyself full price."
"Thou hast not the gold to train."
"Excellent! Hast thou brought some pumpkins for me?"
"Very good! Let me see how many thou dost have..."
"If thou wouldst travel in a lighter fashion, thou wouldst have hands to take my gold!"
"No? What hast thou been doing in my field? Thou art as worthless as most of the workers one finds!"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Tsk tsk... I am broken-hearted..."
"How many dozen wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Tsk tsk... I am broken-hearted..."
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Tsk tsk... I am broken-hearted..."
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What article wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Excellent choice!"
"Thou must put away one of thine other items before thou canst take this fine piece of clothing."
"Thou dost not have enough gold for my fine apparel. Perhaps in the near future."
"Is there something else thou wouldst like to see?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot carry that much!"
"Thou hast not the gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot carry that much!"
"Thou hast not the gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"Thou hast not enough gold to pay me. I am sorry but I cannot train thee now."
"I am able to heal, cure poison, and resurrect. Art thou in need of one of these services?"
"Which of my services dost thou need?"
"So thou art healthy? 'Tis good news. If thou dost need my services in the future, do not hesitate to return."
"Indeed, thy friend has departed this life. I will attempt to restore them to this world."
"Then I am truly sorry. I must charge what I must charge. We do not live in prosperous times."
"Well, if thou dost decide that my services are needed, I am always here."
"Then prove it. Talk to me."
"Hi there! What is on thy mind?"
"Ah, I do know what thou dost mean! Thou dost need help, yes?"
"Hmmm. I might could give thee a clue."
"I would like to give Chuckles a black eye!"
"What wilt thou give me for a clue?"
"How nice! All right! I shall give thee a clue. 'Tis here in this scroll."
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many dozen wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"I am qualified to heal, cure poison, and resurrect. Art thou interested in one of these services?"
"Which of my services dost thou have need of?"
"Very well. It pleases me that thou art healthy."
"Thy friend is badly wounded. I will attempt to restore them."
"Tsk, tsk. Thou dost not have enough gold for the service. I do hope I may help thee another day."
"Then thou must look elsewhere for that service."
"If thou hast need of my services later, I will be here."
"What wouldst thou like?"
"Very well."
"I have no more. For some reason, no one is sending Silverleaf to us, so I cannot make a meal from it."
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many sets wouldst thou like?"
"Very good. At last we are getting somewhere!"
"Thou hast thine hands full, idiot!"
"Thou hast a lot of gall attempting to buy something from my shop without enough gold in thy possession!"
"Anything else for thee today?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Very good. At last we are getting somewhere!"
"Thou hast thine hands full, idiot!"
"Thou hast a lot of gall attempting to buy something from my shop without enough gold in thy possession!"
"Anything else for thee today?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Very good. At last we are getting somewhere!"
"Thou hast thine hands full, idiot!"
"Thou hast a lot of gall attempting to buy something from my shop without enough gold in thy possession!"
"Anything else for thee today?"
"I regret that thou dost not seem to have enough gold to train here. Mayhaps at another time, when thy fortunes are more prosperous..."
"Thou art already as proficient as I! I am afraid that thou cannot be trained further in this."
"How many dost thou want to purchase?"
"It would appear thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou care to buy something else?"
"Thou art already close in skill to me! Thou hast peaked in thine own potential. There is nothing further I can do for thee."
"Art thou in need of healing, curing, or resurrection?"
"Which of my services dost thou have need of?"
"Though I want thy business, I am pleased to see my services are not needed!"
"Thou dost not have that much gold! Mayhaps thou couldst return with more and purchase the service then."
"Then thou must look elsewhere for that service."
"Very well. If thou hast need of my services later, I will be available."
"What can I sell to thee?"
"Very good."
"How many sets of twelve wouldst thou like?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Very good!"
"I am sorry, but thou cannot possibly carry that much weight!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that," he says, shaking his head.~~"Too many birds in the hand is worth a bush."
"Wouldst thou care to purchase something else?"
"Now I would like to hear from our members who have gathered here this evening. Share with us how The Fellowship has helped thee!"
The ape-like creature slowly and cautiously walks up to you. He, or she, sniffs for a moment, and then points to the honey you are carrying.
"Honey will be given by you to me?"
"You are thanked."
"Petre the stables caretaker discovered poor Christopher and Inamo early this morning."
"Very well. What was Christopher's occupation?"
"What didst thou find at the murder site?"
"What did the key open?"
"What didst thou find in the chest?"
"Dost thou have a suspect?"
"What dost this villain look like?"
"Hmmm. Any leads on finding this villain?"
"Here is half of thy reward money. Thou wilt receive the rest when thou dost prove that the killer hath been brought to justice!"
"Thou dost not have enough companions to carry thy reward! Thou must return to me later, and I will give thee thy gold."
The Mayor hands you 100 gold coins.
"Dost thou need the password?"
"Excellent! I have no doubt now that thou art the one true Avatar!"
"What didst thou find?"
"Hmmm, a key. Perhaps if thou dost ask Christopher's son about it, he may know what it is for."
"To desire what item?"
"To understand."
"To request how many?"
"To be done!"
"To carry too much already!"
"To be without enough gold!"
"To request something else?"
"Thou hast so many companions that I may not follow thee at this time."
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
Gargan coughs, wheezes, and then lights his pipe. On inhaling, he has a coughing spasm until he finally catches his breath.
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to whet thy palate?"
"Fine choice."
"Thou art correct!"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"I must help him, as he helped me! Wilt thou assist?"
"Very good," he says, noticeably relieved. "I thank thee in advance."
"Then I must go this one myself," he says angrily. "'Tis no more than one friend would do for another... no more than Bollux did for me!"
"I must help him, as he helped me! Wilt thou assist?"
"Very good," he says, notably relieved. "I thank thee in advance."
"Then I must go this one myself," he says angrily. "'Tis no more than one friend would do for another... no more than Bollux did for me!"
"I am the golem called Adjhar, at thy service."
"Then it is imperative that we find a way to bring him back! If nothing else, I owe him my gratitude."
"Strange," he says, puzzled. "I am at a loss then to explain my arrival here.~Regardless, I -must- find a way to restore life to him!"
"Hast thou not already met him? He is my older brother, and my friend."
"Master Astelleron -- we actually called him our father -- created him before he did me. And he instilled Bollux with a personality first."
"Dost thou have the book entitled, `The Stone of Castambre?'"
"Please go and recover it then. I believe it contains information that may help my companion."
"Dost thou have it with thee?"
"Please go and recover it then. I believe it contains information that may help my companion."
"Then I recommend thou dost search within my master's chambers for it. The pages contain words which may help my companion."
"As thou must know by now, my creator chose to call me Adjhar."
"Dost thou want the Talisman of Love?"
"I am sorry, but thou must be less burdened to receive this one of three greatest of all blessings."
"Thou art truly deserving of such an artifact. But if thou dost not wish to utilize the Shrines, I must respect thy wishes."
"I am and always will be the one called Adjhar."
"Now that thou hast mastered the Principle of Love, I no longer serve a function."
Slowly, as if with great effort, it raises it head.
"In what way may I assist thee?"
"I am a guardian of the Shrines of the Principles."
"We are called stone golems... because we are made out of stone and rock."
"Astelleron made us. He is our master."
"We were... fashioned... out of the rock from the quarry on this small island."
"I do not know what... it is, but there are many books in his house. Perhaps... there is something there about... magic."
"I have a book here that Adjhar said told about... our... creation. This might help bring Adjhar back."
"There are several... more books lying about the house. I do not... know what they are about. Adjhar read them."
"My companion... Adjhar... He is dying. Thou must help repair him. Please, I beg... thee."
"I have a book here that Adjhar said told about... our... creation. This might help bring him back."
"He is my brother... and my friend. We protected the... Shrines together. We cannot let him... stay like that. Help me... assist him."
"I did not... understand the book, but I remember... blood..."
"I am here... to guard the Shrine... of Love."
The golem seems to have regained his staid composure. However, life is still evident within his gem-like eyes.
"I am here to guard...." He pauses, obviously deep in thought."I am without a duty now."
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many dozen wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many sets of twelve wouldst thou like?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"To see you need more experience to train at this time."
"To have not enough gold to train here."
"To be without the practical experience required to train at this time."
"To need more gold than you have. To need 50 gold."
"To purchase what item?"
"To be accepted."
"To be agreed."
"To be without the ability to carry that much!"
"To have less than enough gold for that."
"To want something else?"
"To be able to heal, cure poison, and resurrect. To be interested in one of these services?"
"To need which of my services?"
"To have no need for my healing."
"To be sorely wounded. To attempt to restore them to this world."
"To have healed the wounds."
"To seem quite healthy!"
"To be already healthy!"
"To have healed the wounds."
"To not need curing!"
"To not be able to save them. To give them a proper burial for you."
"To breathe again. To be alive!"
"To have not that much gold! To perhaps return with more and purchase the service then."
"Sorry. To look elsewhere for that service then."
"To be here later if you need me."
"I am able to heal, cure poison, and resurrect. Art thou interested in one of these services?"
"Which of my services dost thou have need of?"
"Indeed, thy friend is grievously wounded. Make room here, and I will heal them to the best of mine abilities."
"Since I am travelling in thy group, I shall waive my fee."
"Thou dost not have that much gold! Mayhaps thou couldst return with more and purchase the service then."
"Then thou must look elsewhere for that service."
"If thou hast need of my services later, I will be here."
"Thou dost not seem to have as much gold as I require to train here. Mayhaps at another time, when thy fortunes are more prosperous..."
"Thou art already well-versed in the tactics of the battlefield. I am afraid that I am unable to train thee further in this."
"I look forward to thy return."
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What dost thou want to buy?"
"How many sets of twelve wouldst thou like?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"I am sorry, but thou hast not enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou care to purchase something else?"
"I am sorry, but thou dost not seem to have enough gold to train now."
"What dost thou wish to buy?"
"All right."
"How many dozen wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot travel with that much!"
"Thou dost not have the gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like to buy something else?"
"What dost thou wish to buy?"
"All right."
"Thou cannot travel with that much!"
"Thou dost not have the gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like to buy something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou wilt indeed be pleased with thy purchase. We have only the finest produce."
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough coin to pay for that!"
"Wouldst thou like to purchase something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many dozen dost thou want?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
Klog is leading the town members in a Fellowship meeting.
"I am qualified to heal, cure poison, and resurrect. Art thou interested in one of these services?"
"Which of my services dost thou have need of?"
"Excellent, thou art uninjured!"
"Indeed, this individual needs restoration!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold! Mayhaps thou couldst return when thou hast more."
"Then thou must go elsewhere."
"If thou needest my services later, I will be here."
"Is there a problem? Art thou confounded by thy task?"
"Well then, I suggest that thou hasten to finish thy task, lest the souls of the well perish before thou art done.*"
"Canst thou not find the spirits of the town?"
He hands you his personal staff. It appears to be magical.
"Why, yes. I sense that the spirit of Caine has not left the island yet. Is he not waiting for thy return?"
"Thou wert brought to Britannia for a reason, I surmise. If thou dost not know what it is, shouldst thou not seek it out?"
"I can still heal, cure poison, and sometimes resurrect. Art thou in need of one of these?"
"Of which service dost thou have need?"
"'Tis good to hear that thou art well. Do not hesitate to come and see me if thou dost need healing of any kind."
"Indeed, this person is badly wounded. I will attempt to return them to health."
"Of course, it will never cost thee anything to use mine healing services."
"If thou hast need of my services later, I will be here."
Lord British hands you the deed to the ship.
Lord British hands you the deed to the ship, but it slips from your hands and falls to the floor.
Lord British gives you the crystal.
Lord British gives you the crystal, but it slips from your hands and falls to the floor. Luckily, it remains intact.
"Ah! But thou hast not the practical experience to train with me at this time! Go and experience life and return later."
"Hmm. Thou art a little short on gold. Perhaps thou couldst visit the House of Games, win some booty, then return!"
"Thou art already as talented as I! Thou hast no need of my services!"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"Excellent! Dost thou have some eggs for me?"
"Very good! Let me see how many thou dost have..."
"If thou wouldst travel in a lighter fashion, thou wouldst have hands to take my gold!"
"No? What hast thou been doing with my chickens? Art thou some kind of fowl pervert?"
"What suits thy fancy?"
"Mmmm. Thou wilt love it."
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"The fortune vill cost thee 20 gold. All right?"
Margareta takes your money.
"Thou dost not have enough gold."
"Never mind, then."
The gypsy woman peers into her crystal ball.
"The ball has grown dark. I see no more."
"Which circle art thou interested in?"
"What spell wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou dost not have a spellbook."
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Thou dost already have that spell!"
"Wouldst thou like another spell?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many dost thou want?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"Thou dost not have enough gold to train here."
"Very well, then. Of whom wouldst thou speak?"
"Thou must use his cage well to stop the liche."
"It is good that thou hast managed to create the magical formula; now must thou use it with the Soul Cage, to destroy Horance."
"In which circle dost thou wish to study?"
"What spell wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou dost not have a spellbook."
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Thou dost already have that spell!"
"Wouldst thou like another spell?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"In which circle dost thou wish to study?"
"What spell wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou dost not have a spellbook."
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Thou dost already have that spell!"
"Would you like another spell?"
"What reagent wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
The music starts the play, as Paul takes center stage and addresses the audience.
Dustin takes the stage as Paul moves away. Meryl lies on the ground in front of him and assumes a death-like pose.
"'Tis doom! 'Tis despair! 'Tis death! ~My beloved wife is gone! ~Disease has taken her away ~And left me with but a song."
Meryl drifts off stage, leaving Dustin alone.
Paul enters the stage with Meryl, who now wears a different mask.
"Join us now and thou wilt see. ~Join thy brothers and our plan ~To promote the tenets of our group -- ~Thou wilt be a better man."
"The voice came to me in a dream ~'Twas mine 'inner' voice, so fair. ~I now have a companion and provider, ~And a master about whom I care."
"The Fellowship can give thee purpose ~To join is thine only choice ~Commit thyself to our just cause ~And find thine inner voice."
"I am sorry, but thou hast overextended thy muscles. If thou couldst return at a later date, I would be quite willing to train thee."
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many dost thou want?"
"Thou cannot carry that much!"
"Thou hast not the gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot carry that much!"
"Thou hast not the gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"All right."
"Excellent."
"Thou cannot carry that much of a load."
"Thou dost not have the gold for that!"
"Is there something else thou mayest wish to buy?"
The winged gargoyle begins his sermon.
You see the gargoyle clerk taking notes in the corner.
"It seems that thou hast not enough gold. Do return when thou art a bit wealthier."
"I am amazed! Thou art already as experienced as I! Thou cannot be trained further by me."
"Better... better... but I think perhaps thou dost need a prop."
Raymundo hands you a staff.
"Dost thou want mine aid?"
"What is thy need?"
"What weapon wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou hast not enough gold for that!"
"Dost thou want for anything else?"
"What form of protection wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Very well."
"Thou hast not enough gold for that!"
"Dost thou want for anything else?"
"They brought thee here along their way to Britain."
"They brought thee here along their way to Minoc."
"They brought thee to us as they were on their way here to Paws, but they have since left for Jhelom."
"They brought thee here along their way to Jhelom."
"They brought thee here along their way to Britain."
"They brought thee here along their way to Vesper."
"They brought thee here along their way to Moonglow."
"They brought thee here along their way to Terfin."
"They brought thee here along their way to the Fellowship meditation retreat near Serpent's Hold."
"They brought thee here along their way to Buccaneer's Den."
"They brought thee here and then returned to Buccaneer's Den."
"It is truly mysterious how this continues to happen to thee!"
"This place is horrible. Wouldst thou be so kind as to take me to mine husband, Trent? He has a tendency to worry about me."
"Thou hast too many people in thy party at the moment for me to travel with thee."
She takes a ring from her slender finger and places it in your hand. You expect it to pass right through, but it rests neatly in your palm.
"I thank thee, kind lady. I know not how to repay thee."
"I thank thee, kind sir. I know not how to repay thee."
Rowena's eyes begin to look a little glassy and she blinks slowly as if entering a deep trance.
"In which circle dost thou wish to study?"
"What spell wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou dost not have a spellbook."
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Thou dost already have that spell!"
"Wouldst thou like another spell?"
"What reagent wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Done! Eat hearty!"
"No one could possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like to purchase anything else?"
The ape-like creature slowly and cautiously walks up to you. He, or she, sniffs for a moment, and then points to the honey you are carrying.
"Honey will be given by you to me?"
"You are thanked."
The ape-like creature slowly and cautiously walks up to you. He, or she, sniffs for a moment, and then points to the honey you are carrying.
"Honey will be given by you to me?"
"You are thanked."
"To want to buy what item?"
"To be acceptable."
"To be agreed!"
"To have not enough gold for that!"
"To desire another item?"
"To be acceptable."
"To want to purchase how many?"
"To be agreed!"
"To have not enough gold for that!"
"To desire another item?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"I regret that thou dost not seem to have enough gold to train here. Mayhaps at another time, when thy fortunes are more prosperous."
"Thou art already as proficient as I! I am afraid that thou cannot be trained further by me!"
The ape-like creature slowly and cautiously walks up to you. He, or she, sniffs for a moment, and then points to the honey you are carrying.
"Honey will be given by you to me?"
"You are thanked."
The ape-like creature slowly and cautiously walks up to you. He, or she, sniffs for a moment, and then points to the honey you are carrying.
"Honey will be given by you to me?"
"You are thanked."
Trent paces around the burned-out remains of his shop. When he sees you return, he rushes forward, looking for his love, Rowena.
The large ghost continues to work, but now he whistles a sweet, sad tune as he hammers on the iron bars of the cage.
"I will need a bar of iron to complete the cage. Several can be found in the town cemetery."
"With this, I will finish it shortly. Wait here whilst I tend to the cage."
"Take the cage to Mistress Mordra and she will tell thee more about it and its use."
"Speak not of thy deed! Such deeds must deeds receive to equal their merit."
"Crime most foul, most horrible!"
"I doubt but thou deceivest me further. If true, thou dost shame the title. Admit now thy true name!"
"I shall not take this deception lightly."
"I have suspected it! No skill have I in such deep matters, but perchance our speech might turn to enchantment when our quest is complete."
"When our quest is complete we shall regale each other with our exploits. Tell me, dost thou prefer hand to hand combat or ranged weaponry?"
"But my preferences run to the bow. An ancient weapon, and elegant, a fine bow of Yew may bring down game sooner than a sword."
"Take care with thy words, master woodsman."
"I do not mean this gracious company! Surely thou art among the elite of Britannia and a rare figure of a woman."
"Thy speech does me service. Alas! Too few are the women who learn skill in arms."
"Please, Avatar, I simply must know."
"Avatar! 'Tis strange to converse yet not see the speaker. Invisibility is queer magic."
"Thy good health, sir. Many campaigns sit upon thy brow. It is an honor."
"Avatar, this stranger grows upon me by the moment. Surely he would be a boon travelling companion."
"Oh, please."
"How art thou, Shamino? Thy woodcraft is renowned in Britannia."
"Renown follows those who travel with the Avatar. I thank thee."
"Greetings young man. How comes one so young into such company?"
"I am an orphan! My father has been most cruelly murdered, mutilated in the stables of Trinsic."
"That is a grievous tale! But surely the time for grief is past. Thou art in the company of great companions."
"Thou speakest rightly. I shall bring my father's murderer to justice or die in the attempt."
"Glad to make thine aquaintance."
"But did I hear thee say 'Avatar?' Say not that thy leader is the one -true- Avatar!"
"It is indeed true."
"'Tis an honor to meet thee, Avatar."
"I will carry that."
"I will carry some."
"I will carry some, as well."
"Dost thou want to join?"
"Then thou shouldst go immediately to see Batlin at the Fellowship Hall headquarters in Britain."
"Oh. Well, perhaps thou canst become enlightened another time."
"Oh! I just now noticed thy medallion! Thou dost already know all of this! Thou art one of us! Excuse me for going on and on about it!"
"The wounds have been healed."
"Thou seemest quite healthy!"
"The wounds have been healed."
"That individual does not need curing!"
"Breath doth return to the body. Thy comrade is alive!"
"Alas, I cannot save thy friend. I will provide a proper burial. Thou must go on and continue with thine own life."
"Which of you wishes to train?"
"One of you wishes to train?"
"Which of you wishes to train?"
"Perhaps at a later time."
"Agreeable?"
"To be agreeable?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"Excellent! Dost thou have some loaves for me?"
"Very good! Let me see how many thou dost have..."
"Thou have not made enough bread to be worthy of any payment at all."
"Come back and work for me at any time!"
"If thou dost travel in a lighter fashion, thou wouldst have hands to take my gold!"
"No? What hast thou been doing? -Loaf-ing around? Ha ha ha!"
"Excellent! Dost thou have some flour for me?"
"Very good! Let me see how many sacks thou dost have..."
"If thou dost travel in a lighter fashion, thou wouldst have hands to take my gold!"
"No? Then thou art a -loaf-er! Ha ha ha!"
"To want what item?"
"To understand."
"To be good. To want to sell nothing to you."
"To be agreed!"
"To be unable to carry that much, human!"
"To have not enough gold for that!"
"To want something else?"
"To want what item?"
"To understand."
"To be good. To want to sell nothing to you."
"To want how many?"
"To be agreed!"
"To be unable to carry that much, human!"
"To have not enough gold for that!"
"To want something else?"
"To accept?"
"To have a deal."
"To wonder why you bothered me."
"To have another offer?"
"To notice you are obviously not interested."
"To accept your offer."
"To be happy," he says. "To have wanted to keep it anyway! To tell you to leave."
"To be agreed!"
"To be foolish to accept so little!"
"To charge more next time. To have sold to you too cheaply!"
"To be interested in which circle?"
"To understand."
"To wonder why you bother me so!"
"To buy which spell?"
"To be fine."
"To agree!"
"To be without a spellbook, human."
"To have not have enough gold for that!"
"To see you already have that spell."
"To be interested in another spell?"
"What would ye like?"
"If ye say so. I know that blasted Britannian Tax Council or what have ye has made the cost o' things too high! Maybe next time!"
"How much do ye want?"
"Ye got ta lighten yer load first!"
"Ye've not got the gold. I kinna do business like that!"
"Anything else ye want?"
"What would ye like?"
"If ye say so. I know that blasted Britannian Tax Council or what have ye has made the cost o' things too high! Maybe next time!"
"Ye got ta lighten yer load first!"
"Ye've not got the gold. I kinna do business like that!"
"Anything else ye want?"
"It seems thou dost not have enough gold to train at this time."
"It appears that thou dost not seem to have enough gold to train here. If thou couldst return later after thy pockets are filled..."
"It appears that thou art already as proficient as I! I am afraid that thou cannot be trained further here."
"What wouldst thou like?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"What wouldst thou like to buy?"
"Thou cannot possibly carry that much!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold for that!"
"Wouldst thou like something else?"
"I suppose thou dost wish me to operate the gate?"
"Stand back while I crank the winch. 'Tis heavy and dangerous. Thou dost never know when it might come down upon thine head."
"Gladly I will for a fellow Knight. Have a pleasant day and may goblin blood stain thy sword soon."
"Then bother me not! I must be about my duty!"
"Why dost thou interrupt? I am a Pikeman of Monitor."
"I must return to my duties lest the goblin horde take us."
"I would have words with thee but my duties call."
"Please consult me when I am not on duty."
"Greetings. I'm a Pikeman of Monitor."
"The Goblins are dangerous. Watch out for them. As for me, I must return to my duties now."
"I will not discuss matters with a stranger to Monitor. Thou shouldst speak with Lord Marsten."
"Thou art not a Knight. Only warriors are welcome here. Move along before thou dost feel the cold steel of mine halberd."
"Welcome, Knight. I must be about my duties."
"Thou didst call, Lord Caladin?"
"Send thy men to arrest Lord Marsten! I have evidence that he is our traitor!"
"Arrest... Lord Marsten?"
"Look, man, thou art a Bear like myself! Obey me now, and all will be right."
"Yes, milord."
"Avatar, I am pleased to report that my men are scouring the city for that traitor Marsten."
"Please spare me! I shall do anything! I do not want to be roasted over a goblin's fire..."
"This is the Bull Tower, knave. State thy business or be gone. We have no time for idle chit-chat with Goblins about."
"Yes, that entire vile race is the scourge of all men of the Serpent Isle."
"We also accept other precious items..."
"Dost thou wish to pay Captain Hawk's fine?"
"I do not believe that a rogue like thyself hast the riches to buy Hawk's freedom! What canst thou give us?"
"Don't take jewels. Thou mightest cheat us by telling us they was worth more than they was!"
"Gold or silver, yeah. Jewels, no."
"Now that's something we like! How much dost thou have?"
"'Tis not enough!"
"'Tis not enough. Bring us more!"
"Thou dost mean the strange glowing money that the mages use?"
"Bah! Take that to Bull and exchange it for true money -- like Monetari!!!"
"Ha ha ha!!! Very funny. Take those little silver coins to Bull, and exchange them for true coin!"
"Pwah! Monitorians do not need magic -- especially not magic weapons!"
"All right, thou canst have him. Here be the key."
"I did not think thou didst have any money!"
"Sorry, but we have too many people in there already."
"Sorry, but I cannot help thee until I return to my desk. All the paperwork that I have to fill out is there."
"My, what a fine-looking warrior! How might I be of service to thee?"
"Maybe when thou dost feel more brave, then."
"The business hours are from 9am to 6pm. Return then."
"Merely a spar then? All right, good enough...."
"Which of you dost wish to fight?"
"Which of you dost wish to train?"
"Well, mayhap some other time, then."
"Where is he, anyway? Tell him to step forward before bothering me again."
"Sorry lad, but no one is around for thee to spar with. Come back some other time."
"With whom dost thou wish to train?"
"Then why art thou wasting my time?"
"Training costs 50 Monetari. All right?"
"Return when thou art ready."
"We need not these blankets..."
"No mortal can resist the Dance of Passion! Tell me that thy blood hath been stirred to a frenzy!"
"No, thou dost not understand. As I said, no mortal can resist the Dance of Passion..."
"Now that I have tasted thy lips, I think that mine infatuation with thee doth grow!"
"Strange -- 'twas so cold in here when thou didst enter, but now I feel suddenly warm..."
"I have not felt so alive in many months! Perhaps... I am not sure how to say this, but..."
"Dost thou desire my body, Avatar?"
"The MageLord? Oh, how canst thou think of him when the two of us are here together, becoming intimate..."
"Perhaps this shall arouse thine interest!"
"Then watch this, my love..."
"Oh... this is so embarrassing!"
"Do I detect a note of disapproval? Well, I don't have to take that from anyone!"
"To be blunt, there is something uncommonly... erotic about thee. I am most attracted to thee, woman."
"To know that thou art a Mage, yet to see that thou art so manly -- this is most uncommon in Moonshade!"
"Thou hast come to learn spells, but I can teach thee some true magic..."
"I could die to be taken into thy brawny arms!"
"Thou dost disappoint me. I had hoped that thou wouldst be more receptive..."
"I feel so comfortable around thee. It is as though we have known each other before -- perhaps in some other existence?"
"Why art thou in such a rush? In Moonshade, we know to mix pleasure with business."
"I am sure that there is time for us to know each other better, before this matter of the spells must be conducted."
"Thou shouldst learn to relax."
"Ah, but thou art so shy! Perhaps I can encourage thee to join me, by use of a little spell..."
"I am so glad that thou hast met me here, sweet Avatar. I find strangers..."
"I am so glad that thou hast agreed to meet me here."
"But this matter of the spells, it must be discussed in private. Only Mages may hear the secrets which I am about to reveal."
"Wouldst thou please ask thy minions to depart?"
"Then I can be of no use to thee."
"But we must wait, darling, until we are alone..."
"But wait! Thou hast forgotten this..."
"What dost thou wish, Master?"
"Forgive me for denouncing thee, stranger. I was under compulsion from the Great Captains, and had no choice."
"Thy friend hath been spared, stranger. Go thy way... I must attend to the wishes of my masters."
"I thank thee for freeing me from the yoke of the Great Captains, stranger. Thy friend is safe and I may once again speak the Truth."
"Go in peace, stranger. I wish thee well on thy quest."
"It saddens me to speak the Truth to thee, stranger."
"Seek out the one whose Beauty lies deep within. He will set thee upon the path to the lost soul of Fawn."
"There will be a Grand Trial soon. At the end of the proceedings, I shall proclaim the verdict."
"I have been told to say the following..."
"Free them at once!"
"The true criminals are Priestess Kylista and Great Captain Voldin, who have conspired to convict this innocent man!"
"Such offense to Beauty cannot go unpunished... The stain of their presence must be washed away with their blood."
"I shall proclaim whatever thou dost instruct me to proclaim. What dost thou wish me to say regarding the accused traitor, Master?"
"I shall do as thou hast instructed."
"I will say that the trial is corrupted, and I shall denounce the true traitors."
"I have waited many years for this moment. I thank thee, Master!"
"I have been the prisoner of the Great Captains for many generations, stranger."
"I do not know who thou art, but I am glad thou hast come! At last, I can speak the Truth."
"As thou wishest. I shall proclaim the verdict which I was previously instructed to give."
"How may I help thee? As a Ranger, I must help thee in any way that I can."
"Thou shouldst report such a crime as this to Julia. She can aid thee."
"...Until one of the Mages manages to destroy a section of town with his experiments. Then things become lively."
"But, 'tis my job... cleaning after the Mages."
"Some can summon fire or ice. Others can summon storms or daemons. And none of it I want to know about, to tell thee truth."
"Either the mage tries a spell that is too advanced for him, or he simply loses concentration. I do not know."
"All I know is that suddenly we have people running through the streets trying to escape whatever the Mage was attempting to conjure..."
"And 'tis no mean feat for us poor Rangers to overcome something that overpowered a Mage, I can tell thee!"
"Oh, yes! It might be as simple as putting out a fire and rebuilding a section or two of wall after."
"I cannot tell thee much about them... Not being a Mage and all. Perhaps thou couldst ask a Mage."
"Rotoluncia's forte is fire spells. So I suppose it follows that she would seek to summon daemons to her service."
"Everyone says that daemons come from the hot depths of the world. That they are foul creatures of flame and melted flesh."
"I hope never to find if it is true..."
"There are those that consider her a handsome woman, when her mouth is closed... If thou knowest what I mean."
"Thou shouldst ask Ernesto if he recognizes it. He is the arms expert among the Rangers."
"On a guess, I'd say it came from Monitor. Everyone knows that they practically sleep with weapons such as this."
"Monitor is on the mainland. 'Tis the city of warriors. That is why I thought the shield might be from there."
"Thou shouldst report such a crime as this to Julia. She can aid thee."
"Do not tell that I told thee this, but do not take such a matter to Julia -- "
"She shall only extort a bribe, then send thee elsewhere."
"Instead, speak to one of the Adepts. Perhaps Gustacio, if he'll give thee his ear, or Fedabiblio. They can help thee."
"A Ranger is in service to the MageLord and the Council. 'Tis our duty to guard the city and keep order..."
"We also make fine wine that is sold throughout all of Moonshade."
"Shamino the Anarch is the current MageLord. He hath brought great change to our city..."
"No longer must a Mage or Mundane be bound by petty rules. It is quite exciting!"
"The Council is composed of Adepts that balance the MageLord's power. They represent the voice of the Mages within the city."
"And here in Moonshade, I'm afraid, Mundanes are little better than chattel."
"Too small for me, I'm afraid. I don't think that these belong to any of the Rangers. Thou couldst ask Bucia."
"Thou canst usually find her at the Capessi Canton."
"The Capessi Canton is Bucia's shop. Well, at least I know that she runs it, whether or not she owns it."
"Thou canst find almost anything there. But remember, Bucia loves to talk. Don't say that I didn't warn thee."
"'Tis our wine, sure enough! Can't fool my nose after all these years working with the Mad Mage's wine press!"
"I wonder if this was the bottle that disappeared... Thou shouldst ask my commander about the wine."
"His attempts to wrest life from death have been rather pathetic. And he hath gone completely mad."
"Hmmm. I can't recall having seen a bottle like this one. But then I don't generally try any vintages but our own."
"Thou shouldst ask Julia, though. If anyone would know, it would be Julia."
"Perhaps I should have referred to her as Commander, for that is what she is... Commander of the Rangers."
"I thought that thou didst have a challenge for me! This one is easy... It is a Pikemen's shield from Monitor."
"I wish that the Council would give us the funds for arms like this!"
"For the Pikemen maintain guard towers all along the roads on the mainland. So they are much more widely respected than the Rangers."
"Monitor is on the southern edge of the mainland. Its citizens are noted for their bravery."
"I went there once, as a young lad. That's what inspired me to become a Ranger."
"Thou shouldst know better than to meddle in the affairs of Fate, Thoxa. By merely talking with the Hero, thou mayest be condemning us."
"We must intervene, Karnax. The very fabric that weaves the tapestry of the Cosmos may depend upon it."
"Thou art as foolish as ever, girl..."
"I must stop thee, before thou sendest us all to our doom!"
"Together... together... until the fiery, peaceful end! Now enemies... once friends!"
"Twist and turn and twine about... What was wrong is right, and what was in, is out..."
"Hide! Hide! For the Avatar seeks!"
"Let us bring this world to its knees! Let these pitiful mortals worship us... even as they die!"
"And I have special plans for the Avatar...!"
"I shall not forget that thou hast beaten me, vile human!"
"Well, well, well... If it isn't the Avatar!" *"Fool! Thou didst think me dead... But now it is time for thee to die!"
"Fool! Dost thou think thou canst actually kill me?" *"I am forever!" *"I am eternity!"
"Puny Avatar! Thou canst not defeat what is undefeatable!"
"No! Thou canst not escape that easily!"
"Thou art too late, Avatar! Nothing can stop me now! The girl is dead and the last Bane is mine!"
"Soon I shall rival the Guardian himself and crush thee like the irritating insect thou art!"
"I shall open the Wall of Lights and destroy the world! And thou art powerless to follow me!"
"Come, Palos! Destiny awaits beyond the frozen mountains!"
"Thy fire shall warm the heart of my trap, Palos. I shall rely on thee to make sure the Avatar feels the warmth of our welcome."
"To be my great pleasure. To look forward to the meeting..."
"Thou shalt be my door warden. I can count on thy strength to delay the Avatar..."
"Mangled will suffice, mighty Brunt. But do as thou wishest..."
"Good... Dead it is!"
"Ah, yes... I had nearly forgotten."
"I must prepare an appropriate welcome for mine old enemy!"
"I can only be disturbed for a moment, as the others will miss me. We must continue our Dirge."
"How darest thou interrupt the Ceremony! Dost thou not recognize the influence of Chaos in this place?"
"At last, a stranger! Oh, but have we met before? This existence is confusing..."
"Art thou a spy? Come, friends, we must kill the spy sent by the Hierophant of Order!"
"Canst thou not see that we are trying to help thee! Everything that we say hath meaning. Thou must vanquish the foe..."
"I am afraid that I have forgotten. Thou must understand, I have been dead a very long time."
"Death whispers most sweetly, but my soul is not allowed to respond. I do not desire to persist in this life."
"I must be going. The others are waiting..."
"Quake at my words, for I am Sesyntho, Scribe to the Hierophant of Chaos! The others say that I am dead, but I am no ghost."
"Canst thou not see that this is merely a time of waiting, before our ascension into the Void? So it cannot be called Death."
"In life, I was Sansalys, the keeper of the Library of Chaos. Alas, the books are taken, except for a few."
"There is another who awaits thee there. She would aid thee, but of necessity her aid will be strange to thee."
"There are four of us here, doomed to perform the same lines over and over 'til eternity dawns."
"One was a priest, another a librarian, and the last was a soldier. I was something once, but I do not recall."
"We must mourn the fate of Chaos, for surely it hath been destroyed in this land. Order hath won."
"Yet, I doubt if there can be any victory. How can Imbalance be victory? We are opposites, not enemies."
"Oh, I speak blasphemy! But I cannot take back my words..."
"Stay and listen to our words, for we are performing a great Ode in honor of the Serpent of Chaos. He shall hear and reward us."
"While the Great One yet slumbers, the Chaos Serpent hath the power to prevail over Order. I will have faith, unlike these others."
"Oh, the beauty of pure Chaos! 'Tis the unity of all the discordant elements of Nature, without pattern or order."
"We are Chaos -- it is our belief, and we are its adherents. We are followers of the Red Serpent."
"Life as a spectral being is so tedious. Once, I was a woman in the prime of my life. Now I merely exist..."
"I miss the flesh! There were pains and sorrow, but it was far better than this joyless life."
"We are locked into this existence, ghosts endlessly reciting the same arguments, as if our doom is somehow tied to the greater cycle."
"If the War of Imbalance doth finally end, if Chaos is victorious or Order doth take the win, then we shall be freed to enter the Void."
"I cannot help but think that thou art connected with our fate. How, I cannot say."
"One sent by the Soldiers of Order, to break our wills and stop the Ode to Chaos. Why else dost thou listen so attentively?"
"I predict this: I see thee lying dead at the feet of one who prowls this labyrinth."
"Thou hast not the weapon to defeat him! His powers overwhelm thee, and thou dost die!"
"Thou hast slain the lurker of these depths, but others await thee! Thou shalt not prevail, stranger."
"His words were the Words of Chaos. He communed with the Serpent, and wore his armour upon his breast. He was our Serpent Father."
"They have slain him, and there is none to replace him. I do not know his burial spot. I weep for him."
"To speak of Order is to defile my lips! They are opposite to rightfulness, they are wrongfulness, they are anathema."
"I despise pattern, and disrespect all laws, and I prize mine individuality above all else!"
"I cannot... it is not permitted... words cannot be spoken..."
"'Tis forbidden to help thee directly, stranger. Thou must discern things for thyself."
"We are the Souls of Chaos, the spirits condemned to prowl these corridors until Chaos is restored."
"In life, we were victims of the Soldiers of Order. I was burned alive."
"The intruder is thine enemy, and is not one with us. He doth not comprehend Chaos. If thou wilt listen to the others, they can aid thee."
"So, brave warrior come to kill King Goblin? Ha! We speak first..."
"Me Pomdirgun, Warlord and King of all Goblins. Mine shall be last name thou wilt ever hear."
"Once land where Monitor built was Goblin land. Then Men come and take it. So now we kill them."
"One day we kill all Men. Today we kill thee. Ha! Then eat thee for supper! Mmm... Tasty!"
"So! Simon told thee I had it. It is mine and I will keep it!"
"Thou knowest Simon's secret? Doth all of Monitor know?"
"Then Simon dead. Was good spy. Didst thou eat him?"
"Eagh! Thou dost disgust me."
"Simon would not taste very good anyway. I will kill thee now."
"Then thou must die to keep his secret!"
"Why thou knowest that?"
"But first, thou must arm thyself with the symbols of my authority --"
"the Staff, Armour, and Crown of the Great Earth Serpent."
"Good. Thou hast my Serpent Staff... It was both a support and a weapon to smite those who would unseat the delicate balance."
"Alas, it did me little good in the end..."
"Thou dost not have my Serpent Staff... Thou must travel to the fiery depths to find where it now lies."
"Thou dost possess the Serpent Armour... fine, fine. It is more than a symbol of the Great Earth Serpent's power."
"Alas, I must give thee bitter news! Before thou canst restore Balance, thou must reunite the Chaos Serpent."
"I grieve that I cannot tell thee how this is done... Such knowledge was for the Chaos Hierophant only."
"Yet I must hope that thou shalt find his burial site... or all is lost."
"Before the land can again live in Balance, the Banes must once more become the Chaos Serpent, united and intelligent."
"The way to do this is the secret held by the Chaos Hierophant. Now thou must seek him out!"
"Remember to bear each of the symbols of power upon thy person, or thou shalt not enter the most sacred precincts therein."
"Do not be hasty, Avatar! I can only speak to thee this once! Art thou sure that thou dost understand all that I have said?"
"I must go now -- into the Void! My blessings are given to thee, Hero from Another World!"
"Then ask of me once more."
"Thou art a dog, to have brutalized an innocent townsperson. Thy place is behind stout iron bars!!!"
"There hath been trouble of late here in Fawn..."
"...And here comes part of it now."
"Be careful of that one. He is nothing but trouble."
"And I am the Lady of Fawn! Thou wilt not go far with such here, stranger." *"What is thy business here in Fawn?"
"If thou wilt not tell me thy name and business, thou canst not enter the city. Come back when thou art feeling more talkative."
"Thou shouldst avoid trouble whilst thou art here."
"I am a Fawn Guardsman! Thou wouldst do well to stay out of mischief while visiting our city!"
"The Broken Oar is a tavern. It is the only establishment in Fawn that offers rooms to rent." *"Most strangers stay there."
"If thou wilt not tell me thy name and business, thou canst not enter the city. Come back when thou art feeling more talkative."
"His name is Jorvin. Thou canst ask him to reassign me, if thou wishest. But by Law he must assign another guard to the job."
"Use the sense that the heavens gave thee... If a storm starts, seek shelter. 'Tis simple enough."
"The goblins have been nothing but trouble of late. Thou shouldst remain within the city gates."
"I am weary of thine insults, Luther! I am no more of a traitor than thou art!"
"I think this talk of a traitor in Monitor is all rather speculative. Surely, no one suspects anyone at this table of being a Goblin spy."
"Forgive me, lord, but I, too, have a serious matter to put before the leaders of Monitor."
"Dost thou not need to rest thyself, Templar? Thou hast had no time to heal from thy wounds."
"I am right enough, Shazzana. And I cannot rest until I have aired my concerns."
"Speak thy mind, then, warrior."
"As thou knowest, I am the sole survivor of the patrol which the Goblins ambushed -- when Astrid was taken."
"The Goblins were ready for us, milord! It could not have been by accident."
"Lord Marsten, there is a traitor in our midst."
"What didst thou think of the Knight's Test? Didst thou have any harrowing experiences?"
"Oh, it isn't that much of a challenge. After all, thou didst survive it, Flicken!"
"But those are so easy to avoid..."
"Perhaps thou didst not walk fast enough. If thou dost lag, the explosions will catch thee."
"We must speak with Shmed about this. Our dungeon is strictly a test of fighting ability -- no magic allowed!"
"Oh, surely thou art mistaken!"
"Perhaps in the darkness, thou didst become disoriented and imagine such an enemy."
"It is good to see a Knight who is not boastful. Luther, thou couldst learn from this one."
"Shmed is the Master of Knight's Test. If I were thee, I would speak to him about thy strange experiences."
"My friend, I am convinced thou hast been the victim of an evil scheme! Tomorrow, I shall speak with Shmed personally."
"Lucilla hath prepared this feast, the main dish of which includes meat from the wolf which thou didst slay in the Knight's Test."
"Now let us eat, and as we do so, let us extend our fellowship to this new Knight."
"And I am here, both as the Lord of Monitor, and as the leader of the Leopards."
"As the leader of the Wolves -- "
"which, unlike the Bears, prefer to rely on our wits rather than brute strength -- "
"I, too, welcome thee to the ranks of the Knights."
"And, if I might say so, thou art no doubt the most beautiful Knight in the city!"
"Since thou art under my Command, I expect to know thee much better in the days to come."
"On behalf of the Bears -- which, by the way, are the mightiest warriors in the land -- I welcome thee to thy Knighthood Banquet."
"Congratulations on successfully completing the Knight's Test."
"Thus thou hast proven thyself worthy of joining an elite band of warriors."
"In thine honor, all of the Commands of Monitor have sent their representatives to thy Knighthood Banquet."
"Lay down thine arms, Knights! Such fighting belongs on the List Field, not in the banquet hall."
"Thy behavior hath disrupted this celebration. In the interest of calming all of our tempers, I declare this banquet to be over."
"Leave him alone, Luther."
"Thou shouldst stay out of this, woman..."
"Leave him alone, Luther."
"Thou shouldst stay out of this, woman..."
"My daughter Cantra is gone! I have looked everywhere for her. We need to send out a patrol!"
"The Goblins have struck again!"
"I am sorry, Harnna, but if the Goblins have her, she is lost. There is not an ounce of mercy or remorse within them."
"But the Goblins did not take her!"
"Enough of this jabbering. Let justice be done!"
"As with all who offend the MageLord, this criminal must be sent to the hellhole known as Dungeon Freedom."
"Thanks for thy witness, good merchant."
"This stranger came into my shop and asked many strange and personal questions concerning the Sorceress Frigidazzi."
"How darest thou defame the good lady Bucia, my good and dear friend!"
"Adepts, be sure to remember this offensive behavior when it comes time to render your verdict."
"Such curiosity seems most impudent, considering that thou art a stranger in this land..."
"Let us hear from the next witness."
"I beg of thee, MageLord Filbercio, to spare this person's life. It was all my fault."
"After all, no mortal can resist the Dance of Passion."
"What a cad! This whoreson thinks to escape punishment for the crime by blaming it all on dear Frigidazzi."
"My fellow wizards, I am sure that you are able to see beyond this criminal's denials!"
"Please be seated, Frigidazzi. We shall now hear from the character witnesses."
"Order in the court!"
"Since when is this a crime? What doth the lady say?"
"Be silent, or thou too wilt be sentenced to the Pit -- for thine insolence!"
"What!? Frigidazzi, why is this stranger in thy chambers?!"
"And where are thy clothes?"
"Darling! This is such a surprise... I have an explanation for everything..."
"I am not daft, sorceress. I can see very well what hath been happening here."
"I knew it!"
"Idiot! Dost thou not think that I recognize the after-effects of the Dance of Passion?!"
"Oh, no..."
"Thou dost stand there without clothes, and claim to be innocent? Ha!"
"A likely story! Listen here, swine -- thou art not the first to try to steal my favorite mistress..."
"Not so fast, peasant! I have a special punishment reserved for those who dare to play games with my mistresses..."
"I demand that this criminal be punished by the Council of Mages. Let the quorum of Mages be convened instantly!"
"Wait, sailor! I shall sing thee mine heart's one song... I fear that it is a sad one --"
"It is a shame, a heartsore shame,"
"That I am singing of my love in vain."
"For I have lost my lady, my love,"
"And I will search for her, yes, search for her,"
"Even through all the stars above."
"Gwenno, canst thou hear me? Gwenno, my dear,"
"Take heart for thy beloved Iolo is here!"
"That storm transported me to this odd city. Because I am a stranger, they arrested me. They say that I am an enchanter!"
"Speak to Lord Marsten, and win my freedom! I know thou shalt not leave me..."
"Avatar! Please free thine old friend! Now that Marsten is jailed, please speak to Brendann and win my freedom!"
"Once again, thou hast proved thyself to be the love of my life. When I write my book, I shall dedicate it to thee, my love."
"Thou art the woman of my dreams! I have never felt so refreshed. What an experience..."
"As a sign of mine appreciation and great affection for thee, please accept this gift. It is my greatest possession."
"Gwani cloaks are most rare, and are worn by the Goblins as a token of great bravery. I slew the chieftain who once wore this cloak!"
"Please wear it, and remember me always."
"I have been ready since the moment I first saw thee!"
"This is not a good time, my love. Perhaps thou couldst come some other morning."
She died forlorn.
They must be led by that villainous Shamino.
All is prepared for my greatest bacchanal ever.
Let us all rejoice in one night of revelry! After the midnight revels and before the end of the night, a new dawn will rise...
We searched all over the Skullcrusher mountains for this bane.
I will finish this entry later tonight.
Abandon me.
I grew up in a tiny village on the southern coast. Life hath been good so far and I know it will be longer than this book.
All through these interminable weeks in this cage, I have suffered from chronic weariness.
I scratch on this lid.
My fingers they bleed.
Now my bones decompose.
My flesh doth rot.
The runes must be placed left to right on the floor before the brass doors; any other placement will result in endless frustration.
I tried W.O.B. and C., none of the runes were in the right position.
I then tried C.B.W. and O.-- again, none of the runes were in the correct position.
I then tried the O rune in the first position, which was not where it belonged, and knew I could discern the puzzle...
Day 8 -- This rotten place ain't for me. It don't seem possible to revel around here.
Day 9 -- Did some work for Batlin. He thinks too much of hisself. I wish he'd fall off a cliff.
I, Silverpate, will prove thee wrong. I will discover the solution relevant to our matters.
"The dog doth not come! Perhaps thou shouldst try the whistle in a more open place, where the sound will travel."
"Use a cloth to soak up the blood..."
"Thou hast the Comb of Beauty! Wilt thou give me the Comb? I will grant thee Fawn's greatest treasure, as I promised the heavens."
"In this one thing, at least, I can fulfill mine obligation."
"Such is the story of my life... Then I shall remain here, within this fetid swamp -- where I belong!"
"Leave me to die in peace! I have nothing left... nothing..."
"Look what thy mad companion, Iolo, hath done to me! He told me to tell thee that only thou couldst prove whether Beauty was skin deep."
"How would I know the mind of a madman?!"
"Perhaps he thought that thou didst have some magic with which to counter his cruelty."
"I am no mage, to tell thee such things!"
"No one can restore the life to my people..."
"Should I selfishly ask that mine own Beauty be restored when the life's blood of Fawn -- the city of Beauty -- lies dead in the streets?!"
"I thought it nothing more than a trinket... Passed down from the Lady Fawn herself, granted, but a bauble nonetheless."
"Only now do I see that it was the tradition, the duty, that I tossed aside as worthless. And now it is lost forever!"
"I would give Fawn's greatest treasure if only I could find the Comb of Beauty!"
"Yes, yes! It all fits now! She admired it greatly, and seemed a bit offended when I did not offer it to her..."
"Of course she took it! Wilt thou give me the Comb? I will grant thee Fawn's greatest treasure, as I promised the heavens."
"Such is the story of my life... Then I shall remain here, within this fetid swamp -- where I belong!"
"It is an ancient piece of armour that was found near the Serpent ruin around which the palace is built."
"I do not know its significance, but we have treasured it ever since... as a sign of Fawn's strength."
"Jorvin is dead! My love, mine heart's true desire!"
"Even as I let the Comb of Beauty slip from the city, I have let all of Fawn slip into lifeless darkness!"
"The storms grew worse and worse! Food was scarce... And a strange sickness crept through the city like some silent predator."
"One by one they fell... And there was nothing I could do! My pleas to the heavens were in vain!"
"The only other living soul is one I turned away -- One I deemed unworthy of Fawn's Beauty!"
"There was no fever. It seemed as if they were sleeping..."
"Hahaha! What cruel joke the heavens have had at mine expense!"
"I listened to the words of traitors and turned out good men, barring them from my protection!"
"And now only the one called Ruggs lives... To taunt me with an empty city and my ruined Beauty!"
"Hmm... not bad looking!"
"As thou art not!"
"Thou art dung, Dupre!"
"Avatar, let us proceed. Cease this dallying!"
"Let us press on, Avatar!"
"Thou impudent snot!"
"It is a phoenix egg. It is obviously quite rare, and it possesses magical qualities that go beyond explanation."
"Greetings to thee!"
"That is the greatest gift that I can give to thee. Use it wisely."
"Name? Oh, my, what a formality! First thou hast saved my life and then thou dost ask my name! Thou art a curiosity!"
"No one hath asked me my real name in several hundred years! I have always been called simply Phoenix."
"It is a sound thou wouldst find most unpronounceable. My name is a word in the language of my kind that roughly translates as 'Skyrise'."
"It is a popular name among my kind. But enough of that! I wish to thank thee for thy deed..."
"I was named after a famous Phoenix queen. She was so beautiful that a dragon came to court her!"
"Canst thou imagine? After many rejections, she at last agreed to go away with him. And then she flew away with the dragon, into the sky!"
"It is rare to find a stranger who is so well-mannered! I do hope that thou didst enjoy the egg I gave to thee!"
"As a token of mine appreciation, I shall give thee the most valuable possession I could bestow upon thee."
"Thou hast never met such a creature before...? If thou dost wish it I shall tell thee my tale."
"The phoenix are creatures of fate. We are naturally drawn to places where the balance between Order and Chaos hath been upset."
"Fate is a force that is eternal. This is why those of my kind can never truly die."
"Although we may lose our lives, we are reborn from the ashes of our own funeral pyres."
"As the course of destiny calls us to many places and many worlds throughout the universe, mine ancestors grew wings to travel far."
"I flew between the Serpent Pillars to reach this place. I suspect that is how thou didst come here thyself."
"Now that there is a living phoenix in this world, the balance between Order and Chaos can be restored."
"A happy thought, no?"
"I wish thee luck in all thine endeavors!"
"Dost thou wish to spend more time in my domain?"
"Wonderful! Feel free to stay as long as thou wouldst like, though thou mightest find it to be on the warm side."
"I wish thee good fortune, and once again I thank thee for restoring me."
The path to wisdom lies before thee. If thy deeds are as virtuous as thy words, thou shalt not fail.
These lessons will lead thee to a much higher level of meditation. They will prepare thee for the climax of the Test of Discipline.
Without it there is no growth, only dwindling and loss of Life.
The path to fulfillment is a long climb towards the heights of the highest and greatest mountain of all.
Herein, I will show thee that there are no shortcuts, and the rewards awaiting thee are abundant.
Be frugal and be prodigal.
Show respect for all life forms. Unless they do attack thee, spare them.
Be great amongst the multitude of thy brethren. Relieve commoners and seek their welfare.
Be humble. Talk no more so very proudly, let not arrogance flow from thy mouth like wisdom from the fountains of Spinebreaker.
Thou shalt not use thy tongue to deceive. Remember to practice whatever thou dost advocate.
Be patient in all circumstances. That will make thee wealthy, for each minute is a priceless gem.
Strength feeds on Ethics and Ethics on strength.
When trouble and anguish come upon thee, Ethics will give thee the strength to overcome.
By this thou shalt overcome.
Ethicality is the belief in abiding by rules of conduct.
Once those rules, or Forces, are one with thee, then, and only then, canst thou abide regardless of the circumstances.
Beware, dear reader, for the beasts of Chaos are watching each of thy steps.
Listen carefully to these words and let those principles be with thee.
Listen to silence and it will speak to thee.
We say, dearest reader, that Logic deals with two states in the Land of Thought: true and false.
Logic is mightier than magic.
Logic turns darkness into bright daylight.
Logic will illuminate the tunnel of ignorance for thee. It will bring thee confidence and knowledge.
Logic is the ability to think clearly and to reason to a conclusion, without emotional bias.
With the Three forces of Order, wisdom and might are on thy side, dear reader.
Once thou dost have the Forces of Order in thy life thou shouldst have no fear.
Once thou dost have the Forces of Order in thy life thou shouldst have no doubt.
Once thou dost have the Forces of Order in thy life thou shouldst have no emotion.
Chaos is wrong and hath no place within our philosophy.
Balance as thine enemy.
Read our Books to know thyself.
Thou shalt be clean when touching The Books.
Thou shalt be pure when reading The Books.
Thou shalt read The Books aloud.
Thou shalt not say with thy tongue that which thou wouldst not make good with thine actions.
The Ophidians are the inhabitants of this continent.
Then came a great war, and the Four Lands were sundered from one another. Then, we were alone.
The Three Grand Shrines were divided into Balance, Chaos and Order.
I alone, a servant of Balance, am left. I soon will die. All is Death, and the land forsaken.
He who passes the Trials will enter the Antechamber of the Grand Shrine.
I believe in the Forces and Powers of Chaos.
I believe in the ways of Tolerance, Enthusiasm and Emotion.
I believe that those ways will show me how to better myself and therefore how to better my life.
I believe that believing in Tolerance will teach me the acceptance of all things.
I believe that believing in Enthusiasm will teach me the source of the energy which will allow me to accomplish great tasks.
I believe that believing in Emotion will give me the ability to perceive feelings which come from the heart and not the mind.
Believe me reader, when I listened to this, I shuddered with awe...
I still cannot believe that I am the one chosen to be his servant. What a blessing it is...
This Treatise contains the exact formulae and incantations which thou dost perform in order to succeed in the construction of living gems.
Ice Worms are to be found. The Ice Worm doth have to be destroyed. Then wrest its heart from the body. The Worm Heart is cold and hard.
Once infused with the soul of a glorious warrior, such gems are placed inside the automatons. This is what gives them true life.
From the desk of the Great Hierophant.
When a man finds no peace within himself, 'tis useless to seek it elsewhere...
Thou canst never teach a person anything. Thou canst only help him discover wisdom himself...
Things unsavory may often be necessary. All Causes are not what they seem. What appears evil often can be good. Never discount.
The Hero from Another World must encounter again what he thought eradicated. The Cause is good this time.
Hence, he is stronger as well as more daring.
To be truly ethical, thou shouldst reject Wealth.
Never, NEVER, surrender to thine enemies.
Fight to the death, but do not abandon thine Ethics.
If thou hast need of them, I will provide them.
True dedication places Enlightenment above all else.
"I am trapped! Help me!"
"I am Shriash. Though I am only a little girl, thou must know that I am a faithful follower of Chaos."
"I belong to the Temple of Emotion."
"Well, perhaps I am not a little girl anymore. My soul hath been trapped here in this rock for eons!"
"If there is such a thing as a little spirit girl, then that is what I am."
"My father says that Chaos is the True Path, and that the Chaos Serpent will lead us to a better life."
"Chaos is the strong limb, and it cannot be beaten. It is like a rope made of many strands, many yet unified."
"But we were defeated, here..."
"Emotion is the energy that drives the soul. There is both good and bad energy, combined chaotically."
"There is love and hatred, despair and joy. Without these, Men would cease to be Men."
"Without love, we could not live in peace. If we did not have joy, life would be pointless."
"Thus, Emotion is the most important of the Virtues."
"I was caught in a great battle. The powerful magic the soldiers unleashed left my soul caught here in this wall."
"They were led by the Master of Ethicality, and his magic wrecked the Temple. My parents were slain, and my brother taken prisoner."
"No one from the Temple survived to free me from my fate."
"This place is the Temple of Emotion. It is a structure consecrated to the Virtue of Emotion."
"We would come here yearly to hear the words of the Master of Emotion, and to drink of the Water of the Temple."
"It was such a wonderful ceremony! The old Master would pass from chamber to chamber, collecting the four Lodestones of Emotion..."
"One year I was chosen to sing in the chorus, and we followed behind him, tossing flower petals and singing the Hymns of Chaos."
"I am trapped within this wall. My soul hath occupied this place for many, many years."
"Sometimes, I despair of ever being free to enter the Void."
"I am sure that this would free me from the stone..."
"But it might kill thee! Or worse, thou mightest be trapped in this wall in my place!"
"Dost thou know nothing? When we die, our bodies are placed in the ground, but our souls rise to the Void."
"There, we shall unite with the Chaos Serpent. He too dwells in the Void between the Worlds."
"This is what my father taught me."
"Once again, thou hast proved thyself to be the love of my life. When I write my book, I shall dedicate it to thee, my love."
"Thou art the man of my dreams! I have never felt so fulfilled. What an experience..."
"As a sign of mine appreciation and great affection for thee, please accept this gift. 'Tis my greatest possession."
"Please wear it, and remember me always."
"I am ready now! Come to bed, my love!"
"Oh, darling! Meet me in my bedroom..."
"I Re-Ten Bentas Juxark I!"
"Praetimde Mir-Wis Re-Por I."
"Avatar! At last thou hast come. Seeing thee again hath brought me strength."
"'Twas clear enough what it was... Its light was still shining after the storm." *"But none of the sailors recognized it."
"I know not what they mean... But none of the mages in Britannia seem to be able to predict the outcome of the most simple spells."
"The gargoyles have also succumbed to these afflictions. They have fallen into a deep state of dreaming."
One bird in thine hand is better than two birds in the bush.
Now the blade needs to have its sorcerous energies realigned if it is to ever contain another bound spirit.
As a courtesy to other travellers, please leave the rest house in the manner that thou didst find it...
We hope that thou dost enjoy thy stay at our establishment...
I am dreaming. I hear the bells and I wake...
I See the frozen waste...
The Hero From Another World is there...
I See men who are not men covered in fur...
I See the Hero From Another World strike...
Must survive the perils of Freedom...
Come in and join the party...
I have paid thee -- and paid thee well -- to fulfill the contract.
Only fools would pay a great sum for an easy task... And I am no fool.
Dispose of the Avatar quickly. Destroy this note. No evidence should be left behind thee.
I seem to have lost the Serpent Tooth I took from the Mad Mage.
Prepared by Shamino.
With additional notes by Dupre.
A pinecone (or, at least, it appears to be one).
A pinecone from the northern woods.
A fine pair of sheer stockings, probably women's attire.
A pair of moonsilk stockings, such as the enchantress Columna doth wear.
Some sort of vase, with soot inside.
A funerary urn containing the Ashes of the Dead, taken from the Caves of Monitor.
A strange apparatus of glass and copper.
A specimen of laboratory apparatus from a mage's laboratory.
The missing apparatus from the laboratory of Erstam, the so-called Mad Mage.
A pumice rock from the fiery depths of some dungeon.
A finely crafted ring, of silver, of a size to fit a small woman or a child.
A finely crafted silver ring, probably the lost engagement ring of a lass named Alyssand.
The engagement ring belonging to Alyssand of Fawn.
A ridiculous fur cap.
An expensive fur cap, which the MageLord of Moonshade obtained for one of his many lovers.
The elegant fur cap which Filbercio the MageLord purchased for his favorite, the sorceress Frigidazzi.
Some very old and worn slippers, such as might be worn in the privacy of one's home.
The well-worn slippers belonging to Devra, the mistress of the Inn of the Sleeping Bull.
An enameled breastplate, suitable for ceremonial occasions.
The ceremonial breastplate of the Priestess of Beauty, who is Kylista of Fawn. A very attractive lady, I should add.
A strange blue egg.
A penguin egg, such as may be found in the ice fields of the distant north.
A crude brush.
A bottle of that excellent vintage of wine sold by the Rangers of Moonshade. Why, I should sample some now...
Strange baubles -- silver disks with jewels in the center.
Jeweled coins from the City of Beauty, Fawn.
A large skull, no doubt belonging to some large and dead animal.
The skull of a great mountain bear.
A bloody hand, severed from its corpse. It shows no sign of decay, yet...
The severed hand from one of the Mad Mage's experiments. It is not dead, yet not living -- it doth not decay.
An inexpensive shield, sturdy and suitable for battle.
One of the common shields used by the Pikemen of Monitor.
A red hunk of stone.
The dangerous mineral known as Stoneheart, which is used to produce the illegal reagent Bloodspawn.
This certificate entitles the bearer to commit thievery up to a maximum of one hour.~~Shamino the Anarch.
This is an invitation for thee and thy friends to dine at the MageLord's Palace.
"Where hast thou taken me, Avatar?!"
"I served thee well upon the Isle of Fire! Why hast thou brought me to this cold place?"
"Free me and I shall help thee win free of this place!"
"Free! Free! Free at last!"
"Thou art a fool, Avatar! Thou hast no idea what thou hast lost!"
"I thank thee for thine ignorance..."
"Beware! The energy of the stones here is drawing away thy power to keep me imprisoned..."
"But thou wilt accept mine offer yet..."
"Avatar! Because thou didst keep thy promise to release me"
"now shall I return the favor."
"This dark sorcerer will trouble thee no more..."
"And to think she was once a young and beautiful sorceress, before her ambitions turned her cold and heartless..."
"Thou dost dare to interfere with my spells! MageLord, I demand that thou reprimandest this sorcerer."
"My dear, calm thyself. Perhaps our visitor shall tell us all, without the use of force..."
"If there is one thing I cannot stand, it is being hamstrung by petty politics. Thou art not half the man thou once wert, Filbercio..."
"I bid you all a pleasant dinner. I have lost mine appetite and am leaving. But mark my words -- I shall have my way!"
"Good Mages, this is the adventurer from a distant land whose arrival was foretold in our conjurings!"
"Ahem--! Also present, as my dinner companion, is the most charming Frigidazzi. She, too, is a Mage."
"Quite right, Gustacio... and here is Adept Rotoluncia, whom I believe thou hast met."
"Please be seated. We have been waiting for thee. I am the MageLord Filbercio."
"Allow me to introduce the others. First, my fellow members on the Council of Mages. Adept Gustacio..."
"I beg thy pardon, MageLord Filbercio, but I have an urgent message for thee."
"I regret to report that mine attempts to locate any significant quantity of the reagent Blood Moss have met with failure."
"Pothos! I should send thee to the dungeons and have the rats feed on thy carcass!"
"Dear guests, I am afraid that I shall have to adjourn this pleasant repast."
"Pothos and I must speak privately concerning important matters of state. I thank thee all for coming!"
"Who dares to disturb the restless repose of the Hierophant of Chaos!"
"Did not faithful Sethys tell thee of my fate? I was slain on this very spot centuries ago, at the hands of the Soldiers of Order."
"My spirit hath lingered here, for my final duties remain unfinished..."
"Do not toy with me, Hero! Though our purposes may be the same, our philosophies are not -- I know thee to be no friend of Chaos!"
"Yet we both can sense the messages from the Void Between the Worlds. The wisdom of the Great Earth Serpent..."
"We thought him dead, or deposed, yet he again speaks to Men -- though his power is a pale imitation of his former glory."
"Must we? Very well..."
"If thou art certain..."
"Yet even servitude would be better than the damnation that Chaos now endures, with its Forces driven apart and broken."
"Listen carefully -- I shall give thee mine aid this one time, but we must be enemies ever afterward!"
"Behold the mystery of Balance! When Order struck down the Serpent of Chaos, the act undid the tapestry of Balance."
"Thus, both Chaos and Order were doomed!"
"When the Serpent was broken, the three Forces of Chaos were driven to insanity -- but so was the Order Serpent..."
"Didst thou suppose the Banes to be innately evil? False supposition!"
"The Banes are only insane because of the Imbalance. Restore Balance, and they shall be healed!"
"The Serpent of Order thought itself victorious in the War of Imbalance, but the act of destroying the Chaos Serpent brought despair!"
"With the Great Earth Serpent lost, and the Chaos Serpent struck down, only the Order Serpent remains to rule in the Void."
"I shall now tell thee the way to restore the Serpent of Chaos. Until thou dost do this, Balance cannot be restored."
"I have no love for Balance, but I also know that Chaos cannot reign in Imbalance..."
"Ask me these things: where thou must go, what thou must bring, and the rite thou must perform."
"The rite is to be performed in the most sacred precincts of the Shrine, before the Wall of Lights."
"The rite cannot succeed unless thou dost bring the Serpent of Blackrock, to open the Wall of Lights and admit the energy from the Void."
"Any of the three Serpents shall do, though the Serpent of Chaos would be most appropriate."
"Thou must also bring the Banes, imprisoned within the Prisms which thou hast fashioned."
"Next, thou must place the Banes upon the altars of Chaos. Thou must place each Bane upon the altar which is dedicated to its native Force!"
"When thou hast placed each correctly, a flame of Chaos shall appear as thy sign."
"The time is now right to restore the Serpent of Chaos to completeness. Recite this mantra..."
"In pri kli ort ailem, Priin ort inten mani!"
"Wait, Hero -- I can only speak with thee this once! Dost thou understand all that I have said?"
"Then ask of me again, and I shall explain once more."
"I disbelieve thee, mortal. Take this scroll. It shall bring our conversation to thy remembrance, in thine hour of need."
"I must confess, Avatar, that there is a mystery which even I cannot explain."
"Seek the answer to this mystery, or thou shalt not succeed! Now, I must go..."
"Seek out the true Moon's Eye in the Temple of the Ancient Ones in the icy wastes to the north. It will show thee what thou must know..."
"Even as was foretold! I have travelled a great distance to meet with thee. My name is Thoxa."
"But wait! I proceed too quickly. Perhaps thou art not the promised Hero... I must test thee, lest I give mine assistance in error."
"Thou art truly the one I seek! Here is the Hourglass of Fate. Keep it with thee always, for through it the Monks of Xenka can aid thee."
"As long as the Hourglass of Fate is with thee, if thou art killed, thou shalt be resurrected on Monk Isle."
"And if one of thy companions is killed, thou canst summon one of us to resurrect him or her, by use of the Hourglass."
"The monk shall come soon, when thou art in a safe place, without strangers or distractions."
"The writings are clear: the Hero shall come in the last days, with Three Companions, to battle against the Evil which is in the land."
"Further, the Hero shall be given guidance from a Power that dwells in the Void."
"The writings of Xenka speak of the Three which shall travel with thee. Without them, thou canst not succeed."
"They shall be thine oldest and most trusted friends, and it is their part to share thine adventure with thee."
"Thou must find them, Hero! And then never let them leave thy side..."
"The writings are vague on this point, so that it is not certain whether the Power lives in the Void now, or merely came from that place."
"However, I know that thou shalt need to seek out three artifacts -- a Ring, a Necklace, and an Earring."
"Through these ancient items, the Power shall communicate with thee. More than this, I know not."
"How can I explain Xenka in the short time we have? Xenka is the prophetess who receives wisdom from beyond the Void..."
"The land is in dire need of a Hero, for the end of the world draws nigh!"
"There are storms which lash out with magical lightnings, and strange illnesses which plague the innocent."
"Lastly, there is the growing sense that something is wrong in the land..."
"The storms are one of the signs that the end of the world is at hand. I know not what causes them, or how they may be stopped."
"Most ships have ceased to sail, for the storms strike any vessel which leaves harbor."
"The lightning doth have the power to kill or to teleport, and sometimes it changes the nature of that which it strikes."
"The prophecies mention that a plague will come among us, to sicken the meek and the innocent."
"I cannot explain further. Dost thou not feel it? The sense that something is... not right?"
"Xenka speaks of these days as the Time of Imbalance."
"My time with thee is short, so take careful heed of mine advice --"
"There is a cave further south by a large red bush -- its entrance is invisible. If thou canst find thy way in, it may provide more clues."
"Follow the coast until thou dost come to a great city. The name of the city is Monitor. An old friend of thine awaits thee there."
"Within the Hourglass of Fate lie the Sands of Time. As each grain doth fall, so doth another moment hasten us to our doom."
"If thou dost fail in thy quest, our world will end... ripped apart by the earthquakes that will soon plague it."
"I must go now, before those who oppose me find that I have been here."
"Thou hast beaten me, vile human. I will remember this day!"
"Avatar! How good it is to see thee! How long hath it been since we last met?"
"Ahhhh... Errrr... Well...."
"Do not tell me that thou dost not recognize me? Come now, Avatar, it hath not been that long."
"Welll... Maybe..."
"Ahh, Smith, the Guardian hath been stopped. Everything is safe."
"Vanquished! By a mere mortal!"
"Puny mortal!"
"We have stalked each other long enough!"
"Forgo the pretense, I am Hazard the Trapper as thou dost know well by now."
"No one tells me what I can and cannot kill! Prepare to join thy Gwani friends on my wall, Avatar."
"From the look in thine eye I can see that this is far from over. Truly this is farewell, Avatar."
"Thou wilt forgive me if I remain skeptical a bit longer. One does not attain a position such as mine by being overly trusting."
"How might I aid the Champion of Balance in fulfilling thy duty?"
"How might I aid thee in fulfilling thy duty?"
"All others who would venture into the Void have no path to guide them and are doomed to death for their arrogance."
"I have not always been as thou dost see me now. I have spent a lifetime becoming worthy of this honor."
"I was once flesh and blood, like thee, a warrior of Order. I was chosen to be tested shortly before the war began."
"I am one of the elite... The ultimate Order warrior. I have traded my body for eternal service to Order."
"The Temple is the primary staging and training area for our efforts in this accursed war. It is the headquarters of the High Command."
"I had always hoped that one day I would be able to make a pilgrimage there, but now it shall have to wait until after the war."
"Use caution, but I fear that thou wilt have to scour these areas in search of the orbs thou dost seek."
"I hope that thou shall find it useful to thee."
"As thou dost wish... What else shall we speak of?"
"I wish thee luck in thy journeys, Champion of Balance. I am sure that thy road will be long..."
"I am Surok, the Healer of Serpent's Fang and I perceive that thou art lost. Perhaps I can aid thee, if thou dost wish."
"I am Surok, the Healer of Serpent's Fang and I didst heal thee of thy wounds."
"Thou dost return? Perhaps to regale me with stories of thine exploits?"
"Ah, one of thy companions hath been slain. 'Tis within my power to heal thy friend if thou dost wish..."
"Dost thou need healing?"
"As thou dost wish."
"I have been here at Serpent's Fang longer than most. Perhaps I can aid thee with information. What dost thou wish to know of?"
"I must be about my duties. Perhaps we can discuss this another time, my friend."
"Show me thine items, I will tell thee what I know, if anything."
"As thou dost wish..."
"Is there anything else I can help thee with?"
"I am no lord, stranger. I am merely a warrior. Thou mayest address me by name or title. I am SubCommander Tsandar."
"I am honored to see thee again, Champion of Balance."
"Thou art truly the Champion of Balance."
"Naturally, now that Isstanar is here, I have become the SubCommander."
"Ones rank denotes how many warriors one is responsible for. It is always an even number of men, measured in hands -- or groups of five."
"A File Leader oversees four hands of warriors, and reports to the Senior File Leader."
"I regret that we were unable to wrest his body from those vile murderers. Ardiniss deserved a proper warrior's funeral."
"We long for word of how the War of Imbalance turns."
"We have been at war ever since."
"Our land is doomed unless we can restore it to Order."
"Better that such fabric be unwoven or burned!"
"It matters not if one has no Enthusiasm for one's orders. Those in command know what must be done, that is enough for a true warrior."
"The land would soon be overrun by disease and vermin!"
"I only wish we knew more than what Commander Isstanar had to tell us when he arrived a few weeks ago."
"I am sorry. I should refer to the keep as the Serpent's Fang, but I think of it as DeathWatch... even so."
"We cannot allow any lapse in Discipline. I suspect that he has lost sight of the absolute Ethicality."
"I hope that I die in battle, that no one may doubt my dedication to Order!"
"Yurel wishes only to be left in peace... and to go home."
"Have they stopped looking for monsters yet? Can Yurel go home in peace now?"
"Yurel does not care. Yurel breaths. Yurel fears. Yurel loves. That makes Yurel the same as others, though Yurel wears fur or not."
"Yurel does not care. Yurel here now, and must find a way home. Yurel only wants to live... Do not others feel the same way?"
"And food... Food would be good. Yurel is very hungry."
"Yurel knows not what is so special about it. It is pretty. It sat upon a pedestal. So it must have been important."
" Yurel loves cheese."
"Yurel loves cheese..."
"Dost thou have cheese thou wouldst give Yurel?"
"Oh, Yurel is so happy! Thou art kind, kind, kind! The ball is yours... But be careful of the warriors, they are looking for it."
"But if thou dost find some, Yurel will still trade."
"If thou dost change thy mind, Yurel will still trade."
"Yurel had friends. Yurel had a safe place to sleep. Yurel worked hard and had fun. Yurel wants to go home..."
"Perhaps Yurel will never know. Perhaps Yurel will never live to see home again. Yurel is lonely... and hungry."
"How nice. Thou hast returned to me. Hast thou brought the ring?"
"Excellent. Thou hast served me well, pawn. Alas, I shall kill thee just the same."
"Thou dost dare lie to me! I shall make thee pay!"
"Curse thee! I shall roast thine flesh!"
"Fool! Dost thou think those flimsy doors are my prison? That the meager traps and inconsequential guards hold me here? Nonsense!"
"The ring! I am a prisoner of my former self, for without the ring I cannot right the world!"
"Master of reagents! Wizard beyond compare!"
"I do not expect thee to comprehend, simpleton! The Ring! Creator of the Ring!"
"Order is folly! The world has blinded itself to this truth, and I shall force them to see!"
"I shall save the world. I shall take away its order as it was taken from me. Thus shall I show the world the truth."
"Yes! Greater powers! He called to the Serpents of Order and Chaos. He spoke with Demons. Only the Chaos Serpent would hear him!"
"My dear moron, Shal was shown the wisdom of Chaos! All traces of Order were removed from him; he became a paragon of Chaos."
"The Chaos Serpent was far too generous in granting him a full year. Had it granted him but a month, I would already have saved the world!"
"The predecessors to automatons. They cannot speak and can barely follow orders. They make idiots like thyself seem intelligent."
"I would not be surprised if the suit of armor forgot entirely about it."
"Ha! Excellent! Go then! Bring me the ring! Do not betray me or I shall sate myself by killing thee slowly!"
"Fool! Simpleton! Idiot! Thou hast condemned thyself to death!"
"Not so fast, mealworm! I have developed an appetite for thee!"
"A human. How interesting. What dost thou want?"
"How interesting."
"Thou dost not look like those humans who call themselves Ophidians, but I canst smell their spore upon thee."
"Art thou an official envoy from Serpent's Fang?"
"Hmmm. I suppose I can tolerate thy presence for a few moments."
"I thought as much! Thou dost not have that irrational look in thy eyes as do those ill-mannered Ophidians."
"Now then, why hast thou come to my domain?"
"Yes, well... are not we all. Ahem. I suppose that I should not bore thee with my sophomoric philosophy."
"I'm sorry to hear that. I myself rarely venture far from my domain."
"Now that I know something about thee, it is only fair that I tell thee that my name is Draxinar. My friends, however, call me 'Stumpy'."
"If thou dost desire to stay for a while I shall not prevent thee. Indeed, thy company would be most welcome."
"And perhaps if thou art willing, I shall puzzle thee with my riddles."
"Now then, how may I help thee?"
"As I have said before, I am very good at riddles. Art thou sure that thou doth want to play?"
"I don't like to boast, but I daresay there is no better riddlemaster than myself! Art thou sure thou doth want to play?"
"Excellent! We shall start with a simple riddle."
"If thou dost answer it correctly I shall give thee a more dificult riddle."
"Thou didst solve my first riddle. Shall I tell thee a slightly more dificult riddle?"
"So be it. Perhaps thou wilt enjoy a riddle later."
"Thou didst solve my first two riddles. Dost thou want to hear another riddle?"
"So be it. Perhaps thou wilt enjoy a riddle later."
"Thou hath solved my first three riddles. Doth thou wish to try a more dificult one?"
"Very well. See if thou canst solve my last riddle!"
"So be it. Perhaps thou wilt enjoy a riddle later."
"Thou hath solved all of mine riddles. Doth thou wish to hear them again?"
"As thy wish. I shall start again with Rhys..."
"I understand perfectly. Why wouldst thou, who hast already solved my riddles, want to hear them again?"
"That is unfortunate. I had hoped to stump thee with my riddles. Later, perhaps, thou wilt change thy mind."
"And what dost thou wish to know?"
"As thou hast probably guessed by now, my friends started calling me 'Stumpy' because I loved to stump them with my riddles."
"Tis my nickname. Perhaps when I know thee better, I shall tell thee the reason I was given this nickname..."
"It hath been years since I last talked with anyone. Thou wouldst not believe how lonely the life of a dragon can be."
"I have already mentioned the Opidian civil war, but I don't think thou art aware of the the liche known as Aram-Dol."
"Yes, I have heard of these people and I don't particularly care for them."
"I have heard a tale about a mad human who is known as 'The Fiend'. Apparently he is very dangerous."
"Doesn't it strike thee as odd that the most evil creatures in these caverns are humans?"
"I have mentioned this war to thee already. Shall I repeat what I said?"
"Very well."
"The tribe of humans known as the Ophidians wage war upon one another. I do not know much about these humans."
"They seem to worship the powers of Order and Chaos."
"I have already told described the liche to thee. Shall I tell thee about the liche again?"
"If thou art fond of thy life I would advise against venturing into Aram-Dol's domain."
"Aram-Dol is not easily reached. The liche hath surrounded his lair with many creatures."
"If I were thee, I would avoid his domain... Although, I have heard that the liche possesses two fabulous treasures."
"Very well. What shall we discuss next?"
"If thou art fond of thy life I would advise against venturing into Aram-Dol's domain."
"Aram-Dol is not easily reached. The liche hath surrounded his lair with many creatures."
"If I were thee, I would avoid his domain... Although, I have heard that the liche possesses two fabulous treasures."
"Longtooth is my aunt's son. A sorrier dragon thou shalt never find! Of course, what happened to him was not his fault."
"Why, he can't even out riddle a goblin!"
"I have not heard what power the gauntlets possess."
"There are also the abominations called the 'Arachnians'."
"They were wrong. They paid for their foolishness and greed with their lives."
"Aye, tis true. I have a treasure. What self-respecting dragon doesn't have a treasure horde?"
"Of course, there is my aunt's son Longtooth. A sorrier dragon thou shalt never find! Of course, what happened to him was not his fault."
"People! Hrrmphh. Thou dost realize, I hope, that not every sentient creature likes to be characterized in human terminology."
"To answer thy question, however, I know, or have heard of, many 'people'. Who, in particular, wert thou interested in?"
"What place art thou interested in?"
"Thou art a most unusual human."
"Anyway, I had spent weeks searching and was about to give up the search when, quite by accident, I wandered into this cavern."
"I understand. I can not blame thee for not being interested. It is not a particularly fascinating topic."
"Frankly, I do not care to know much about that place."
"As long as those humans stay out of my domain I shall reciprocate by not trespassing upon theirs."
"Frankly, I do not care to know much about that place."
"As long as those humans stay out of my domain I shall reciprocate by not trespassing upon theirs."
"Truly. I think I shall never understand humans."
"They have been fighting for at least a year I think."
"I cannot say why you humans do the things you do: you are peculiar creatures, with odd customs and strange rituals."
"All I know is that these Ophidians starting slaughtering each other about one year ago."
"As I have said, I know little of your human rituals, but I do know that these Ophidians worship snakes."
"Now that I think about it, I remember hearing that they worship the forces of Order and Chaos, albeit in the forms of snakes."
"These caverns are fairly large, a fact that suited me because I myself am fairly large."
"This cave was perfect for me. I could come and go as I pleased, at least until Aram-Dol started expanding his territory."
"Aye, the bugs have a weakness: they are especially vulnerable to fire. I fried dozens of the monsters before they broke ranks and ran!"
"After that battle I caved-in some of the passageways near my cave and moved large boulders to block other entrances into my cave."
"The tactic seems to have worked because I have had little trouble from the creatures since I erected the barriers."
"I don't mean any offense to thee, but I think that any maze devised by the mind of man could easily be solved by any sensible dragon!"
"How might I be of service to thee?"
"Make no untoward moves, I warn thee, for I am Elissa, Order Mage of the First Rank."
"Ah, thou hast spoken with our Commander! Very good. What can I do for thee?"
"Begone from my sight, miscreant!"
"Thou must have some proof of thy identity..."
"What about the Amulet that Karnax didst give thee, Avatar? It brought us here. Perhaps this Mage would recognize it."
"Avatar, let us use the Amulet to return to where we were. We have enough to worry with on this quest without such presumptuous women!"
"But if I might see the Amulet that they speak about, perhaps I can end this questioning now."
"Thine attitude dost seriously endanger thy freedom. I suggest that thou change it quickly."
"I mean no disrespect, but I have never heard of @the Avatar@ before."
"Thou dost take too much upon thyself, woman!"
"This is the Avatar thou dost question!"
"If she tries anything, Avatar, I shall gladly lop her head off for the effort!"
"This is a time of war! Thou canst not think to wander about unchallenged. 'Twould be a breach of duty if I did not stop and question thee."
"I am sorry, good Mage. Thou art quite right."
"We are strangers here. Thou dost well in questioning us. We wrong thee with our demands to be unaccountable."
"Thou must honor thy duty. I apologize for speaking ill of a honorable warrior such as thyself."
"Thou wouldst know him, if thou hadst met him. He is the ultimate Order warrior! Nothing touches him. He is bound only by his duty."
"My honor is worth more than that! I shall not have it said that I betrayed Order!"
"I know nothing further than what I have told thee. I have not yet attained that level."
"If thou art observant, thou wilt know the answer to thy question. If not, I shall not aid thee... No matter who thou art."
"Although our titles are different, I am equal in rank to SubCommander Tsandar."
"Tsandar's devotion to Order is strong, to be sure. But how could he expect to command now that Isstanar is here?"
"Fortunately, he was honored by a clean death in battle before anyone could question the strictness of his command."
"What dost thou desire?"
"Another time, perhaps. I should go and make my rounds now anyway..."
"Thou art nearly dead, Avatar!"
"Yield to me, and perhaps I shall spare thy life! Dost thou yield?"
"I always knew that thou wert a coward!"
"One that I shall pay, worry thou not!"
"When that strange storm struck, there was a flash, and then I found myself in a wilderness."
"That is all right. If thou art with my friend here, thou needest not speak with me."
"This is no time for idle chat. We're on a quest!"
"This must wait. There is no time for delay!"
"We must press on, Avatar!"
"The Sands of Time are dwindling! We must hurry!"
"But I should let Iolo tell thee..."
"The wizard Gustacio hath agreed to aid us, if we will but assist him in his experiments."
"He bet with me that thou wouldst not survive Freedom, but I told him that thou wert made of tougher stuff than any dungeon!"
"I think thy survival shall impress him..."
"With great pride!"
"Leave thee at a time such as this? Surely, thou dost jest. Onward!"
"I hesitate to leave thee. But if thou dost insist..."
"I have exciting news -- the monks have returned Shamino to us again, healthy and whole! This he can explain to thee."
"He went west from here, towards the magic woods."
"The good bard was very disturbed by thy sudden departure, and hath been questioning the Mages constantly as to thy fate."
"He hath gained the friendship of the Sorcerer Gustacio, and hath taken to aiding that worthy in his studies. We can find him there."
"Thou wouldst never believe it! Boydon hath become very friendly with young Bucia of the Canton, and spends much time with her."
"If we can find her, then we shall find him!"
"Before we go any farther, Avatar, I think we should take stock of our supplies."
"That blasted storm exchanged all of mine equipment for useless refuse! Even mine enchanted shield!"
"I shall prepare a list."
"Then I shall add to it."
"Unholy creatures! We must destroy these foul skeletons, Avatar!"
"Do not die, my sweet King..."
"Beatrix, is that thee?"
"I forgive thee for deserting us, King Shamino. To prove that my love for thee is stronger than eternity, I shall heal thee of thy wounds."
"Keep this book as a keepsake between us. Now I must go into the Void, but remember me always..."
"Avatar! Art thou all right? I heard what sounded like the explosions of a volcano -- and look at all the fire here..."
"I have been searching all over for thee! That storm hath left me quite disconcerted. I can find neither Iolo nor Dupre."
"Perhaps thou shouldst inspect thine equipment as well! I shall make a list of what we have."
"Thou hast escaped the foul mages' prison swiftly, indeed. Most wonderful!"
"Of course, I never doubted that thou wouldst return..."
"The monks came and brought me here, saying that it was vitally important for me to be here."
"The one called Karnax said that I must fulfill my purpose, or the world itself would be in jeopardy..."
"That is right, I was dead when last we saw one another. However, the good monks found my body and returned life to me."
"To be honest, this is not my news -- it belongs to our good friend, the Bard. Thou shouldst ask Iolo."
"Quickly, let us find Iolo. He can tell thee all about the discovery!"
"The Mages of this place are not friendly toward outsiders, but thy survival shall surely impress them."
"Particularly, I am sure that the one known as Gustacio will be inclined to help us now. Let us seek him out."
"I have had the chance to spend a few hours in the company of the Mage Frigidazzi, on whose account thou hast been imprisoned."
"She asked me to convey her apologies to thee, and to present thee with three gifts."
"The Sorceress Frigidazzi met secretly with me, and expressed her sorrow at what had been done to thee."
"As a sign of her regret for what hath happened -- jail and all -- she sent three gifts to thee."
"These earrings are of ancient devising, and I was told that they would be most flattering to thee."
"Note that they are engraved with serpentine runes, milady."
"I bear three gifts from thine admirer -- a magic scroll, an earring, and a note."
"The scroll bears a spell of protection against heat, and should be most useful."
"As for the earring, it is inscribed with serpentine runes of ancient design."
"Lastly, there is a note, but its contents are not known to me."
"Here they are..."
"Most gratefully!"
"I would join with thee, old friend, but I can see that thou already hast a large party."
"A woodsman like myself would feel uncomfortable travelling with such a large group. I will remain here, instead."
"But we have barely begun, Avatar! How can I stand idly here while the adventure awaits?"
"If that is what thou dost wish..."
"Thou knowest our good friend! He hath deposited himself at the Blue Boar Inn, and hath been trying out the local brews!"
"Iolo hath struck up a friendship with the Mage Gustacio, from whom he is learning much about the storms which plague this land."
"I expect we could find him at Gustacio's manor."
"Why, that magical creation doth have a budding romance with the shopgirl from the Canton!"
"If the shop is open when we arrive there, Boydon will almost certainly be there."
"We are beset by dragons, Avatar! We must slay them quickly!"
"Yet here we are on the ship. I wonder if I lost anything..."
"We may be on the ship, but the ship is upon dry land! I think that thou art correct, Iolo. We did fly!"
"Brrr. Dost thou notice the chill in the air? 'Tis much colder here than at home."
"I hope Gwenno brought enough warm clothing..."
"Do not worry so, old friend. We shall find thy wife soon enough."
"And that fiend, Batlin, I hope!"
"I thank thee for freeing me from this hellhole! The natives of this place are ignorant sots. Imagine, thinking me to be a sorcerer!"
"I am making a list of the strange items which the storm gave us."
"Then I shall add to it."
"I have a list of the strange items which the storm gave us."
"I shall add to it."
"I shall make a list of the strange things I have found in my packs. Perhaps these are clues to where our real belongings have gone."
"I feared that I had lost both thee and my beloved wife, but thou hast survived the depths even as Dupre assured me that thou wouldst..."
"'Tis said that only a superb Mage can leave the Mountains of Freedom alive."
"I am carrying many items, some of which may be of use to thee. Wouldst thou care to have these?"
"Here they are."
"Thy friends will have to help carry these things."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, I will place it at thy feet."
"If thou changest thy mind, thou hast but to return and ask again."
"No cheating, stranger!"
"I cannot join thee, friend. Even if thou wouldst cheat at the Test, I cannot aid thee in so doing. I am thy true friend."
"I think that perhaps I should remain where I am..."
"Whatever thou dost wish, Avatar."
"I am carrying many items, some of which may be of use to thee. Wouldst thou care to have these before I depart?"
"Here they are."
"Thy friends will have to help carry these things."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, I will place it at thy feet."
"If thou changest thy mind, thou hast but to return and ask again."
"I miss Gwenno so much, Avatar. I hope that it is not long before we find her and I may hold her in mine arms again."
"We must find some way of restoring Gwenno's mind! Unless we can do that her precious spirit is lost to me."
"My soul is at peace. Joy is to know Gwenno, and to have her once more in thriving good health."
"Dost thou wish me to repeat a song thou hast already heard? Or dost thou wish to hear a new song?"
"I'm sorry... Thou hast heard all of my songs."
"Thou hast no doubt heard by now the news? That Shamino doth live again! The monks brought him to us."
"I think he was more disturbed by thy departure than he cared to show. Or else they have told him something..."
"I think he was more disturbed by thine abrupt departure than he cared to show."
"He went west into the woods, to be alone."
"At the nearest tavern, of course!"
"Um... well, I am not sure. Perhaps Dupre or Shamino might know."
"Avatar! Why art thou in my dream? I was looking for Gwenno..."
"Oh. Perhaps I have intruded upon thy dream."
"Forgive me. I shall go seeking my wife and leave thee to thy dream."
"More snakes! Destroy the vile creatures, Avatar!"
"Oh, my poor Gwenno!" *"Now she is truly frigid."
"Oh, am I glad to see thee! I have been very scared."
"Hello, I am Andrio. I never meet outsiders. Couldst thou tell me all about thy travels and adventures?"
"Hast thou done anything exciting lately?"
"Thank goodness, thou wert able to restore him to life. Else I would never finish my Mage's training!"
"Dost thou suspect townsfolk, or strangers?"
"Perhaps. Yet to me, this doth have the stench of a Moonshadian intrigue."
"For the moment, let us assume that I am right and thou art wrong..."
"Is thine enemy a Mundane, or a Mage? What dost thou believe?"
"No, no, no. How could a mere mortal snatch thy friend in such an arcane fashion?"
"The criminal must be a Mage!"
"Exactly so!"
"Yet I suspect Torrissio. He is a true swine, and it would take a devious person to plan such a crime."
"I am working to become a great master. Someday I hope to be as great as Master Filbercio."
"Of course, I know that level of expertise will take some time. But I have the discipline! Just ask Freli, he will tell thee I do."
"He is the MageLord of all Moonshade. There are rumors that no mage hath lived who was more powerful, not even the Mad Mage!"
"Goodness, I hope that doth not happen to me!"
"Thou wilt tell, wilt thou not?"
"He is my companion and fellow student. We have been friends for a very long time. And his mastery of magic is almost as great as mine own."
"Thou art mad!"
"How else may I help thee?"
"I am glad thou wert able to successfully deal with him, without him getting the best of thee!"
"Go away from me with that rotten egg. Phew!"
"What a pleasure to meet thee. My name is Bucia, and I tend this provisions shop. Is there anything that I can help thee with?"
"Strangers are always welcome in Moonshade. My name is Bucia -- if thou needest help, thou hast merely to ask."
"Oh, my! What to do? What to do?"
"Call the Rangers! Consult the Mages! Such a crime cannot go unpunished."
"Perhaps this has something to do with the magical storms? Perhaps we are all in danger!"
"I am not certain that I'll know anything useful, but in what art thou interested?"
"I am afraid that I'm very busy right now. Perhaps we could talk about this later."
"'Twould be wrong for me to speak about people behind their backs."
"So please, do not tell anyone! Dost thou desire to know about townsfolk, or visitors?"
"Dost thou have an interest in mere Mundanes, or Mages?"
"Those of us who do not cast magic are a small and disrespected part of society here. Whom dost thou desire to know about?"
"Ducio is the Master Artisan, capable of forging or repairing all manner of magical apparatus."
"He hath grown lazy with prosperity, however -- his apprentice doth do most of the hard labor, while the Master wets his throat at the inn!"
"Poor Topo! Someday he'll be the Master Artisan, but for now he must labor long hours for a mere pittance."
"He hath been most delighted lately -- as if some burden hath been lifted from his mind."
"Pothos is back, and his shop is open once again."
"Hast thou heard the rumor about the apothecary? Some say that he hath a most uncanny resemblance to the Mad Mage."
"I think so, too."
"Thou canst buy no reagents in Moonshade, for the Apothecary hath gone away!"
"There is a tale that explains his absence."
"Don't tell that I told thee, but I hear that Pothos is on a secret errand for the MageLord!"
"They are the pride of our city. The Chief Ranger, Julia, hath no mercy for troublemakers."
"But if thou dost ask me, she's too gruff -- I think she'd like to give everyone orders, if she could."
"By the way, be sure to give thy greetings to Ranger Ernesto..."
"...he's rather cute."
"...he's a winsome lad."
"I can say nothing bad about Goodman Rocco and his inn! He is a gentleman."
"Now, some enjoy talking about him and that female automaton living under the same roof, but not I."
"Petra is a fine girl, even if she's merely a magical construct."
"Beware of Mosh! Those rats of hers are filled with disease."
"Do not listen to her accusations about the Sorceress Columna -- all imaginings, not true!"
"Everything in this city revolves around the wizards and their cliques. Whom dost thou desire to know about?"
"Filbercio is the most powerful wizard of them all."
"'Tis said that he hath some strange compelling power over women..."
"...thou had best watch thy step, lest he ensorcel thee with a love spell!"
"...not me, of course, but he hath had his way with many other beautiful women! Thou wouldst be surprised to learn of many of them."
"He is not partial to visitors, so I doubt that thou shalt ever have the chance to make his acquaintance."
"Perhaps thou hast heard the name Rotoluncia?"
"Besides the MageLord, there are two others who compose the Council of Mages."
"Adept Gustacio is a wise wizard, but strict in his ways and aloof from Mundanes."
"As for Adept Rotoluncia, she is steeped in magic and a mistress of the arcane. Do not provoke her, for her anger is terrible."
"Fedabiblio is the Magister. 'Tis he who directs the Seminarium, where young magelings are taught."
"In former times, 'twas his job to go to the mainland and acquire those babies which had promise of magical powers."
"But each year there have been fewer students, until now the school lies nearly empty."
"Perhaps this hath something to do with the multi-colored storms."
"Such an odd couple! Melino is one of our eldest Mages, retired from the Council. He is a good man, but often befuddled."
"As for Columna, she is only one-third his age! And such an attractive woman..."
"Between thou and me, she is too young for that husband of hers. If I were her, I'd die!"
"There are many in this town who would like to steal her from Melino, but none hath succeeded!"
"Well, there is Mortegro -- his speciality is dead things, spirits, and burial rites. Not a pleasant fellow."
"And Torrissio, a fine young Mage with a burning ambition. He reads books and keeps to himself."
"Then there is Frigidazzi, the Frost Sorceress."
"She hath some strange habits, need I say more. The MageLord protects her, for she is his latest paramour."
"But thou shouldst stay away from her, for she is the MageLord's mistress, and he is a jealous man!"
"Perhaps thou shouldst speak to Rocco at the Blue Boar Inn. All of the town's visitors stay at his fine inn, even that travelling scholar."
"Also, Julia keeps an eye on all undesirables."
"A visit to the Chief Ranger might be a good idea. Thou canst find her at the Winery, in the western part of town."
"Rocco could tell thee more, for he came to know her rather... well. I only know her name: Gwenno. She left here a few weeks ago."
"Interested in seeing the sights, eh? Well, I can tell thee about the islands, or the mountains."
"I do not think I can help thee, but if I think of anything, I'll inform thee!"
"What sort of items art thou inquiring about?"
"'Tis a pinecone! I don't know where they come from, but Captain Hawk gave me one once. May I have this one, too?"
"Thank thee!"
"'Tis fine, I do not need another one."
"Perhaps the Magister could help thee. He is an authority on many subjects."
"From thy description, the stockings could only be one kind -- Moonsilk Stockings."
"I sell them here in the store, but not often. Only the Mages can afford luxuries like these."
"The Green Sorceress, Columna -- she dresses in only the finest materials."
"She also has a moonsilk sleeping gown, which cost more guilders than I shall ever make!"
"Please, may I see the stockings..."
"The silk is so soft! Didst thou know that the stockings are made from the cocoons of lunar moths?"
"May I... could I... wouldst thou mind if I kept this pair? No Mundane could ever own such finery!"
"I do not know what that is, but it doth give me a shuddery feeling. Please, take it away..."
"It doth sound like some sort of pot. Perhaps Topo could aid thee -- he assists Master Ducio in fashioning bowls and pots for the Mages."
"Since thou art a Mage, perhaps thou couldst ask thy fellow wizards about this magical apparatus."
"'Twill do no good to speak with the Mages, for they ignore Mundanes like ourselves."
"But if thou spokest with Master Ducio, perhaps he could help thee. He makes all of the apparatus for the wizards of Moonshade."
"What an ugly rock. Take that with thee when thou leavest, please?"
"The Magister is a storehouse of knowledge. Perhaps he could aid thee."
"What a pretty ring! A simple stone in a carved setting -- so unlike anything the Mages would have!"
"All they think of are jewels and gold, until they've driven out all the beauty!"
"I'll wager that ring comes from the Sea City, Fawn. Where else could such a wonderful creation come from?"
"Perhaps thou couldst speak to the Master Artisan. He hath made many baubles for the MageLord and his mistresses."
"Why, I sold that cap myself, from this very shop!"
"Anyone could tell thee that fur comes from the north, on the mainland beyond the great swamp."
"I've sold fur caps and cloaks from time to time, but the storms have isolated us from the Trappers. So I have none left to sell!"
"Such old, ratty things! Must have belonged to some Mundane -- no Mage would wear anything so worn."
"Slippers? No Mundane could afford them, but perhaps a Mage is missing a pair."
"How exotic -- armour made for a woman! 'Tis too beautiful to come from Monitor, and no ranger here wears such a thing..."
"I'll wager that it comes from the sea-city of Fawn. Thou shouldst ask about it there."
"Such items of heavy armour are not needed here, as we depend upon the Mages for our defense."
"Thou shouldst ask the armourers of the warrior-city of Monitor -- they make many kinds of armour."
"Oh, 'tis a rotten egg! Leave here with that!"
"A blue egg? I have never heard of such a thing, but the Magister is wise in many subjects. Perhaps thou shouldst inquire of Fedabiblio."
"Such an odd little brush. I don't know why, but it doth give me a most unnatural feeling. Please, take it back!"
"Thou art seeking brushes? Perhaps Topo the Artisan could help thee -- he makes many things for the Master Artisan."
"Allow me to see that bottle. But of course! This is Moonshade wine, made by the Rangers of our town!"
"If thou desirest more, simply inquire at the Winery on the west side of town."
"Perhaps thou shouldst inquire at the Winery. The Rangers are most knowledgeable about wines."
"Why, 'tis the money used in the sea-city of Fawn. See the gems in the center!"
"If thou desirest, I can exchange those coins for valuable Moonshadian guilders."
"I cannot tell thee what the coin is unless I see it, but if it isn't green and glowing, 'tis worthless."
"How quaint. Take it with thee when thou leavest..."
"A skull?! I know nothing about bones! Perhaps Magister Fedabiblio could help thee."
"What dost thou have there? Why, 'tis moving..."
"How repugnant."
"Probably the work of the Goblins -- I have heard that they are most crude, though they do not bother us here on this island."
"Or perhaps one of the Mages hath been experimenting again in the forbidden arts."
"Mortegro doth have an interest in Death, and goodness knows what the Mad Mage might be doing!"
"Those colors are the hues worn by the Monitorians. The shield must have come from a pikeman."
"Perhaps Ernesto at the Winery could help thee. 'Tis said that he is good with weapons and such."
"Put that away! I hope that no one saw..."
"Dost thou not know that it is a crime to possess Stoneheart! It is a most dangerous substance."
"Thou dost know that it is a crime to possess Stoneheart! It drives men into lunacy!"
"Thou shouldst discard it in some safe place, such as a remote isle or distant mountaintop."
"I'm not sure of what thou speakest, but perhaps Pothos the Apothecary could identify it for thee."
"Sadly, his shop is closed today. He hath not been seen for some time."
"Those are very interesting, but too daring for a nice girl to wear, methinks."
"I think I know the stockings thou art speaking of, but I am not certain..."
"I do not stock such goods any more, but I know where they can be obtained -- Fawn, the sea-city."
"Oh, yes. To the Sorceress of the Night, Selenia. But she hath been absent from this city for many weeks now."
"This stocking might be a clue to her strange disappearance! Thou shouldst take this to the Chief Ranger!"
"Perhaps this is a clue to the strange disappearance of Selenia!"
"Could I see thy bottle? Hmm... A bitter ale of some kind."
"Perhaps thou shouldst inquire at the Winery. Ernesto is most knowledgeable about wines."
"I wish I could have been of more help to thee..."
"Is there anything else I can help thee with?"
"The owner keeps the shop well-stocked with all of the most useful goods."
"But I am afraid that prices are rather high these days, now that the ships no longer sail."
"I do not believe that we've met. It is so nice to make the acquaintance of a new, young Mage."
"I am Columna, the Green Enchantress."
"Welcome, Mage. I am pleased to see thee again."
"My name is Columna. Sorceress, wife of Melino, and I am also the most desired beauty in Moonshade."
"Is that not a funny joke?! Me, a decrepit hag?! The most desired beauty in all of Moonshade?! Once, in my time... In my time..."
"This laboratory equipment must surely belong to Erstam, the Mad Mage! It bears the unmistakably foul stench of one of his experiments."
"Without being able to actually look at the item thou hast mentioned, I can tell thee nothing."
"Many weeks ago a woman named Gwenno passed through Moonshade, and more recently a sage named Batlin."
"He came through town with a strange daemon creature as his companion and servant, and he had some sort of artifact in his possession."
"'Twas male, and had bright red skin. But there were no horns on its head -- I swear. I believe its name was Palos."
"I personally did not see it, but I know that Gustacio did."
"He is a close and trusted advisor to Filbercio, the MageLord of Moonshade and senior member of the Council."
"Oh, worry thyself not. I am not one to allow my needs to go unsatisfied."
"Without my precious comb, all of my beauty hath long faded."
"Yes, in truth it hath always been so, and shall always be. My natural good looks must be the result of my good breeding."
"'Twas Stefano who stole my stockings from Torrissio's house in an attempt to blackmail us over our affair."
"Now that he is returned to Moonshade, we have already seen to it that he shall die for what he tried to do to us."
"My sincerest wish is that he rot slowly in Filbercio's mountain prison."
"Ha! There was thy spell, foolish woman! Now the stockings are destroyed and they shall trouble me no more!"
"Please, I beg of thee to reconsider."
"Ha! Dost thou think that because thou art now a Mage, that thou art equal to me? I reject thine advances, mage."
"Ha! Thou dost think I would squander my lust on the likes of thee?! A Mundane!!! I laugh at thee."
"The stockings have now been destroyed by my magics. Thou dost have no hold over me, nor shall anyone else!"
"Please, I beg of thee to reconsider."
"No doubt she hath defamed me. What tales she tells! Of course, she is merely jealous of my position in society, and of my powers."
"Let me say this plainly. Mosh lies. She hath ruined herself with cruel indulgences, and now she is half mad."
"Why, she sleeps with her rats! I ask thee, is this the action of a respectable mage?"
"I am Ducio, the Master Artisan."
"Thou art alive! Thou hast survived the holocaust! So many are dead..."
"Welcome back..."
"What is thy business?"
"How may I be of use to thee?"
"Do not involve me in such matters, stranger! Canst thou not see that I am a Mundane?"
"This matter smacks of wizardry, and I want no part of it!"
"I have an apprentice. I have automatons to help the work progress. That makes me a Master."
"I am able to create or repair anything. I make what the Mages need. That makes me an Artisan."
"If thou hast need of the Master, ask me. If not, ask Topo."
"One that bakes. One that sews. One that smiths. All from Torrissio. They work hard... do not talk back like Topo."
"I gave him a good deal on the metal he needs. Now I've got three hard workers made of metal. Not a bad deal."
"Torrissio doth not ask about my work. I do not ask about his."
"All I know is that his spells are old. Not anything created by these Mages."
"Thou wishest to ask more, ask Torrissio... If he will speak with thee."
"Very old. Maybe as old as the Serpent ruins, maybe not. I'm not a Mage."
"What dost thou think I am, a teacher like Fedabiblio?!"
"If thou wishest a history lesson, go to him like any novice. If thou wishest the work of a Master Artisan, stay."
"I do not have time for such questions!"
"Fedabiblio teaches the young mages. He keeps the library of magic. He knows the history. Speak to him, do not bother me!"
"Art thou a Master?"
"No. Then do not ask what deal I give to others. Bad manners."
"If the Mages can speak plain enough to explain what they need, I can make it."
"Magical apparatus. Swords. Whatever. I can make it. They enchant it. 'Tis fair."
"I make all the apparatus for the Mages. All different. Every Mage wants something a little different than the next."
"I can tell thee who a piece belongs to just by looking at it. I remember everything I've made."
"Dost thou have something thou wishest me to look at?"
"I might ask how thou didst come by this. But I won't. I do not want to know. Vasculio hath been dead for years..."
"Thou hast no such object! Do not waste my time, for I am a busy man..."
"If thou wouldst bring the object to my shop, I would be glad to examine it there. I do not have my tools with me now."
"Not good, that one. Sought to reach beyond life and rule death. Not good."
"They say he rose from the dead. They think he is looking for revenge."
"I think the Council secretly decided to burn him. No one can bring back the dead from ashes."
"Ensorcio was Vasculio's apprentice. Too much like his Master, that one."
"Exiled now. Hear he spends his time drinking away his sorrows on another island."
"Do not have much call for them. Not magic ones anyway. But I have made a few."
"Unless it is a special order, mine automaton makes it. For something non-magic, talk to Topo. If it's magic, talk to me."
"Mine apprentice. Scrawny boy. Large ambitions. Big mouth."
"But he doth work hard... when I yell at him. Shows promise."
"Tends to be a bit lazy, though. Must teach him better. Make certain he learns as much as he thinks he knows."
"What dost thou need? To buy? To look? To talk?"
"Looking is free. Inspect the automaton-made goods."
"I have everything from cloaks to baked goods. Ceramics to swords. And many things between."
"Let me know if thou dost wish to buy anything."
"Talk is free, too. But I'm a busy man."
"May I see it? Ah, thank thee..."
"Too plain for a Mage... But wait, I remember this!"
"I made it for a sailor from Fawn. I'll wager that it cost him half a year's wages. He wanted it for an engagement ring."
"So where is this ring? How can I tell thee anything about this ring, if thou dost not bring it to me?"
"If thou wouldst bring thy ring to my shop, I would be glad to examine it there. I do not have my tools with me now."
"Fawn is on the other island. Somewhere on the far side, I think. 'Tis a port. Filled with sailors."
"That is all I know."
"I remember the piece, not the man. Wasn't a Mage. Not worth recalling, I imagine."
"Ask in Fawn. He was proud enough about the ring. Someone will know who it belongs to."
"Magical swords are very difficult to deal with. In some cases, I can be of aid, but other cases require the assistance of a Mage."
"'Tis a magic sword, right enough. I'll take thy word about the Daemon..."
"The structure of the blade is not damaged. It is not a problem that I can repair."
"Thou must seek out a Mage to aid thee, if there are any left among the living..."
"If Gustacio's flux analyzer had not been stolen, I would have sent thee to his lab. It was the only thing that might have helped thee."
"If thou wouldst bring me the sword, I could examine it for thee."
"What a strange request... Yes, I can make thee a Worm Gem, if thou dost desire."
"'Tis a simple matter, when thou dost know the secret..."
"Thou must bring me three Worm Hearts -- no less!"
"But first, thou must bring me the Hearts of three Ice Worms."
"I will make thee a Worm Gem if thou wilt come to my shop when I am there..."
"Why, the hearts of Ice Worms, of course! Kill an Ice Worm, strip it of its heart, and kill another."
"The Ice Worms are found in the cold northern lands, I am told. I have not been there myself. Heard stories. Very cold."
"I am a man! I am a man! I cannot tell thee how miserable it is to be a bird."
"My name is Edrin."
"Why, yes. After I find my brother we will return home, if possible. It will be much safer to travel by ship."
"Aye. My brother says that he was told we can find safe passage aboard a ship here. But all we've seen is Captain Hawk."
"He is the captain of the... the... what is the name of that ship?"
"The Arabella."
"Ah, yes, now I remember. I thank thee."
"Thou art welcome."
"Oh, well, I cannot remember."
"Anyway, now that he hath been killed, I know not what we'll do. I suppose we must await the arrival of another ship."
"Anyway, for some reason he doth refuse to sail again. I do wish he would change his mind, or that another ship would arrive."
"I did not see anything..."
"Nor did I!"
"I'm glad he met Mistress Devra."
"I wonder how he will react to seeing me again. I hope he hath not strayed too far from home."
"Yes, in the forest near our farm there are a terrible number of Goblins. They often come to raid us on the way to the city."
"Did I not tell thee to speak with Gustacio?"
"A thousand thanks! I had feared that I would remain an adornment of this place forever, thanks to Shamino the Anarch."
"Thou must be a seeker after knowledge. I am the Mage Fedabiblio, and I serve as the Magister of Moonshade."
"Thou hast a voracious appetite for knowledge. What dost thou desire to learn?"
"Most ominous... Again, I would direct thee to the MageLord. He is a man of low intellect and great cunning. No doubt he can aid thee."
"Do not waste thy time with the Rangers -- this is a case for Mages, most obviously!"
"I direct thee to go immediately to MageLord Filbercio with this matter."
"Thy friend hath been taken! By means magical! 'Tis an offense to the Council..."
"Take thy case directly to the MageLord -- he shall aid thee!"
"The Rangers became his instruments of chaos... Anything was allowed, as long as one held a 'permit' from the Anarch."
"I do not know how many of us are left now. It seems that most of the manors are abandoned..."
"Ah, thy mind is questing again! What shall we speak of now?"
"I tried to save Captain Hawk from the Anarch, but my powers were not sufficient."
"As I think the key might be useful to thee, I am giving it to thee."
"For instance, thou couldst perchance assemble a near- complete set of the fabled Serpent Teeth -- "
"It was a coup to steal such an artifact from old Erstam, but now the trophies lie abandoned in the mansions..."
"I know not what the powers of the Teeth might be, but they might reveal their secret to thee."
"But beware of the automatons!"
"The last I knew, before I earned the Anarch's ire, Stefano was alive... though he was being pursued by some fell creature."
"Ducio yet lived. As did Torrissio. And I can only pray that Andrio and Freli escaped the notice of that monster!"
"One of my functions is to find gifted children for this school. When they are located, I bring them to the school."
"I was appointed as Magister for life."
"A young, untrained Mage can be quite dangerous! Therefore, these children must be brought to the Seminarium -- for their own safety!"
"For instance, take young Freli. His father was a shopkeeper. What could a merchant teach his son about magical powers!"
"Taking care of my students is a tiring but fulfilling duty. Young Freli shows much promise, and Andrio is almost ready to graduate."
"Any Mage can study here in safety, knowing that this place is a sanctuary from violence."
"Passing travellers also stop here to access our library."
"Thou art not the first to be attracted to our facilities! In recent days, two visitors are memorable."
"The three Adepts are the most powerful wizards in the city. They compose the Council of Mages, which governs the city."
"One of the Adepts serves as MageLord. Currently, Filbercio rules as Lord of Moonshade."
"All is in an uproar, with Rotoluncia dead and her replacement -- the Necromancer Mortegro -- missing."
"Gustacio hath asked that I join the Council in this troubled time, and I have done so."
"Gustacio remains on the Council, as he is second in power only to Filbercio."
"The other two Adepts are Gustacio the Green Mage, and the Red Sorceress, Rotoluncia."
"Now, Gustacio hath thrown himself into his studies of the phenomenon of the teleport storms. It hath become his obsession."
"Trust me, she is someone thou dost not wish to cross."
"He holds seances regularly. I am certain he will invite thee to one, sooner or later."
"Indeed, Mortegro hath gone missing! It is said that he chose to take a stroll during one of the magical storms..."
"Whilst making his observations of the storm, the Necromancer was struck by lightning -- and disappeared."
"It would be a shame if he were dead, for only he knows the secrets of speaking with the souls of the dead."
"Most of the Mundanes born here eventually leave. They settle in Fawn or Monitor, and this is better for them."
"In what art thou interested?"
"Thou hast mistaken me for a common gossip."
"I myself would not go there. It is said that the heat there is so intense that it is lethal."
"Bucia the Shopkeeper hath sent thee to me! And what did she tell thee to ask of me?"
"Might I take that..."
"Yes, this is pumice -- black in color, rough in texture, light in weight."
"Pumice is a light, rough rock of a black or light brown hue."
"These rocks are formed when the Primal Forces of Fire and Earth collide -- during certain conjurations, for instance."
"Pumice is also found deep in the bowels of the world, where fire runs liquid."
"That item is used for researching the properties of magic, and to create new spells."
"It is not safe for thee to have such an item. As the Magister, it is my duty to take that from thee."
"It is not mine, but I cannot tell thee to whom it belongs. Only Master Ducio would know."
"The item sounds as if it might be a piece of magical apparatus. Master Ducio would know for certain."
"But thou shouldst not handle such equipment -- for Mundanes, it could be very dangerous."
"Ah, yes. We sometimes find these on the beach after a storm."
"The northern trees produce tough cones which are filled with seeds. Later, the cones open and release their seeds."
"As thou canst see, this cone still doth have its seeds. It hath been newly released from its tree."
"It must have come directly from the northern forests, on the mainland north of the Swamp of Gorlab."
"Once the pinecone releases its seeds, it becomes a dried husk. Being light, it is transported by wind and wave."
"Thy pinecone could have come from any northern forest or any beach."
"What a stench! This egg hath gone putrid!"
"A blue egg... doth not seem to be magical or in any way arcane..."
"A blue egg... have I ever read of such a thing? Blue hens, blue frogs -- but eggs?"
"I do not know what it is! And if I do not know, then no one shall."
"Cap'n Hawk might know! He hath been everywhere in the world!"
"The lad doth have a point. Also..."
"Erstam the Mad Mage would almost certainly know, but he doth not share his information with anyone."
"Allow me to handle it..."
"But this is merely the skull of a common bear, such as are found on the mainland, most often along the westerly coast."
"If thou wilt bring me the item, I shall examine it for thee. I can tell thee nothing now."
"Remember always -- knowledge is power."
"It is said that Erstam translated portions of it, but the translation was lost many years ago."
"As a token of my gratitude, please accept this, the Scroll of the Serpent."
"Hmmm... I think that thou shouldst consult my crystal ball. Perhaps it can provide a clue into the matter of the missing brother."
"Once thou hast looked, come back and I shall divine what thou hast seen."
"Bring me three fresh Mandrake Roots, and I shall let thee have a spellbook. The Roots are found on Monk Isle."
"Forgive me for my suspicions. But thou wilt understand that I take my responsibility seriously. I will now conjure a spellbook for thee."
"Ummm.... For some reason, I cannot locate the spellbook that I was going to give thee. Thou wilt have to return at a later time."
"Remember this well. It may mean the difference between thy life and thy death."
"Return to Monk Isle, and return with fresh roots of the Mandrake!"
"Without the Mandrake Roots, I can do nothing for thee."
"Return to Monk Isle, and return with fresh roots of the Mandrake!"
"'Tis thee again. Hast thou good news?"
"But we were only beginning! Very well, if thou dost insist..."
"Hmmpf..."
"Perhaps I shall go live in a hut on the coast. That would be less stressful..."
"Never mind the legends of hidden treasure chambers here. If there were gold here, I would have it by now!"
"It is lonely to be MageLord. I have the needs of a normal man, yet I am overwhelmed by the demands of the citizens..."
"I am grateful for thy sympathy, madam. I too am attracted to thee. Aha, thou didst not think I noticed thy glances!"
"But alas, I am spoken for! The sorceress Frigidazzi is my current love, and she allows me no trespasses."
"And I am jealous of her affections, as well. I have found that women are notoriously fickle..."
"No doubt thou hast heard tales of my romantic conquests! This is the answer I have found to the pressures of being MageLord."
"I know that the citizens talk of me all the time, behind my back. They say that I am a great lover, and indeed, I am!"
"But I have never found true love. Romance is like the fog that dissolves in the sunlight."
"Do not speak of this to the Sorceress Frigidazzi! She is my current passion, and I fear that she doth love me too much."
"I am supremely jealous of her affections, as well. Though I do not truly love her, I will not be made a fool of!"
"Is there no end to the bickering among the Mages? We have three factions here, and each elects its favorite to the Council of Moonshade."
"As the voice of compromise and experience, I have always been selected MageLord by the Adepts."
"My fellow Lords are Gustacio and Mortegro."
"My fellow Lords are Rotoluncia and Gustacio."
"The Sorceress Rotoluncia is the heart of dissension. She is ambitious beyond measure, and causes all manner of trouble."
"Ah, but she did tutor me as well, that summer! There have been many loves, before and since, but I shall always remember Rotoluncia."
"Gustacio doth adhere too strictly to outdated codes of ethics. Why, we could accomplish nothing in Moonshade if we followed his advice!"
"I doubt that he shall even deign to speak with thee. He is of the old school, and speaks only to those he considers worthy of his time."
"Until thou hast proven thyself, he shall have little to do with thee."
"Now that Rotoluncia is dead -- and I shall miss her, for she and I were once lovers -- I hope for greater harmony."
"The Black Mage, Mortegro, hath been selected to take Rotoluncia's seat on the Council."
"They say that he is crazy, but I think there is prejudice everywhere against necromancers. He is not that bad."
"Allow me to see what thou hast -- it had better not be one of mine own!"
"Thieves could not take thy goods, MageLord. I protect them well."
"That had best be true, or thou wilt find thyself on the scrap heap!"
"Ah, good! 'Tis not mine at all. Thou must understand that every item of magical equipment must be custom-made for each Mage."
"I do not know to whom this belongs, but it is not mine."
"Hast thou brought this object with thee?"
"Then I can tell thee nothing. But if thou hast stolen this from me, I shall not pay ransom for it!"
"Slippers! What business is my footwear to thee! Dost thou think to have a laugh at mine expense?"
"Begone with thee, fool..."
"Thy friend hath been taken! How foul! And by magical means! Indeed..."
"Whom dost thou suspect of this terrible crime?"
"Nonsense! That man is an honest and an upright Mage, though he doth have unsettling habits..."
"Withdraw thy suspicions -- I vouch for his integrity. Mortegro did not steal thy friend."
"That name is familiar to me... he came to Moonshade many weeks ago, a large man in a brown cloak of a very common quality."
"Perhaps thou shouldst inquire of Bucia at the Provisioner's Shop -- if there is anything to be known in this city, she would know it."
"A tragedy that the two of thee were unable to settle thy differences amicably."
"I have heard that she believes thee to consort with Daemons, and to be a partner of the one called Batlin."
"Thou shouldst search her manor for clues. Open every door, for thy friend might be hidden anywhere."
"Thou canst find her mansion in the northeast part of town, built into the face of the southern mountains."
"Be careful -- the Red Witch is most powerful, and I cannot protect thee from her enchantments!"
"If thou hast no suspects, then thou surely art clueless! I mourn for thee and thy lost friend."
"I have already given thee my permission. Go! Do not trouble me further! I can do no more in this matter."
"So thou hast searched Rotoluncia's manor, and there is no sign of thy friend, or of Rotoluncia? How interesting..."
"I have one last hope for thee, but I must first share a secret with thee..."
"If I am wrong this time, then thine enemy must not be Rotoluncia, but rather some other Mage."
"If this is so, I cannot aid thee."
"I am reluctant to admit this, but under the circumstances, I think that I must."
"She demanded that our love-making be done in secret, and so I built a secluded love palace."
"Oh, it is a modest place -- not like this great masterpiece! A mere cottage."
"Perhaps Rotoluncia hath gone there to hide, and taken thy friend as well. If so, then she hath betrayed me."
"Go quickly! See if she is there, and if so, flush her out!"
"It is located in the center of the Lake of Enchantment, south and west of where we now stand."
"Thou shalt need a boat to reach this place. Take my yacht. I give thee permission."
"Women are fickle! Never give thine heart to one of their kind, stranger. Better to love them and then leave them..."
"I am undone! Mine heart grieves. I must go away to be with my thoughts..."
"Aha, but I cannot speak of this with thee! It is a private matter..."
"I need thine help! I need thine help! I am in so much trouble..."
"Art thou the great hero from a distant land?! Oh, my name is Freli. I am glad to meet thee!"
"'Tis the Avatar! 'Tis the Avatar, from far away!"
"Thou shouldst ask Andrio -- I am certain that he could help thee! He is very bright."
"Torrissio can be quite mean, I have heard. Andrio is afraid of him, I know that."
"I am not!"
"Yes, thou art!"
"'Tis a lie! Besides, thou art afraid of him as well!"
"That is, uh, not at all true!"
"Why, Andrio will not even pass his house before 9 in the morning."
"That is when he leaves his laboratory to go out into the city."
"It was so terrible! Everyone is dead, and the city is destroyed..."
"I was in the Seminarium when the Glowing Man came. Fedabiblio tried to stop him, but could not..."
"He is dead, he is dead... The Glowing Man turned him into cold, cold stone. He is standing in the Seminarium..."
"And I do not know how to change him back!"
"He is my long-lost father. Here is a scroll thou canst give him from me."
"I know that one! It is written entirely in Serpent Runic, and kept in the library of the Seminarium."
"Thou shouldst ask Fedabiblio for the key. I am sure he will give it to thee since thou didst save him."
"Only Fedabiblio had the key. But now he hath been turned to stone!"
"Yes, we met at the MageLord's banquet. I am Frigidazzi, of course."
"Back so soon? But of course."
"That disgusting oaf! He wanted to buy a serpent relic from me, but I did not sell it to him!"
"Cannot we find a different topic of conversation?"
"It was not very remarkable -- merely a stone in the shape of a serpent's tooth. It had no powers that I know of..."
"Many of us have these stones. In fact, it is a tradition for the best Mages to own one or more of them."
"Canst thou keep a secret?"
"I can tell thee from whence the Serpent Teeth came..."
"We do not know why he values them so. And since he now hates us, I doubt that he shall explain the matter to us."
"Neither can I! But I had best not share my secrets with thee..."
"A beautiful city, is it not? But ever so much more beautiful at night when the moon is shining down upon it. Dost thou not agree?"
"I am a heavy sleeper, so thou shalt most likely have to awaken me..."
"I am the mistress of cold-fire magic, a specialty I learned during my many travels to the north."
"Extreme cold is in its own way just as powerful a force as extreme heat. Over time, I have learned to bend it to my will."
"Canst thou not see that I am trying to sleep!"
"I know thee! Thou art the adventurer for whom the MageLord held the banquet."
"A pleasure to meet thee, I am certain. But I have no patience for idle tongue wagging."
"Forgive me, but this is an absolute waste of time, when there are other matters which are pressing..."
"I am sorry, but I do not have time for this. My studies devour mine entire day."
"Please do not hold me responsible for that travesty of justice! In Moonshade, one doth not contradict the MageLord!"
"Besides, thou wast guilty of the crime, meaning that thou wast in the forbidden bedchamber..."
"Oh, how I envy thee! But I am old now, and have my researches to content me."
"I apologize for being brusque with thee before. I had no true concept of thine abilities."
"My name is Gustacio, if thou must inquire!"
"Thy daemon sword needs to have its sorcerous energies realigned. I could repair it if I had my flux analyzer."
"Excellent! Now we can repair thy sword."~ "Place it here and activate it. When the machine is working, use it on the sword."
"Thou didst? But then where is it?"~ "Thou wouldst have me think that thou didst find it!"
"Unfortunately, it was stolen from me years ago."
"I thank thee for thine excellent help. Now that my work hath been completed, I have time to teach thee magic as I promised."
"Thou didst agree to help with mine experiments. Why hast thou not taken the energy globe to the tower on the plains?"
"If thou wilt aid me with mine experiments involving the teleport storms, I shall reward thee with magic. Dost thou agree?"
"Then I am sorry, I do not have any time to spare for thee."
"This is the mysterious power to move things from one place to another without passing through the space between."
"I have a theory that the colors of the lightning somehow directly correspond to the supernatural force behind it."
"But I have developed an experiment to test this theory, and thou canst help me with it."
"And the experiment that thou didst carry out for me seems to confirm what I believed to be true."
"Place the globe on the platform, on top of the tower structure."
"Next, thou shouldst engage the winch. This will seal thee within the tower, and activate the levers. It will also summon a magical storm."
"I assure thee, thou art in no danger! I would do this myself, but at mine age, climbing stairs is very difficult..."
"Observe the effects, and most importantly -- observe which color lightning hath which effect. Then return to me with thy report."
"Thou hast completed the experiment. As a token of appreciation, here is the Mirror of Truth."
"But of course! Thou must needs go to Fedabiblio for the answers..."
"Why hast thou not taken the energy globe which I did give thee to the tower on the plains?"
"Thou must needs take the bird Ale to the tower in the wilderness, and place him where the lightning can strike him."
"I shall give thee this cage to hold the bird within."
"Return to the tower with this new energy globe!"
"While Mortegro and I were working to discover the secret of the teleportation storms, Mortegro was hit by a lightning strike."
"If I can discern how to reverse the teleportation, perhaps I can rescue poor Mortegro. I hope he was not killed in the exchange..."
"In what way can I help thee, stranger?"
"We meet again."
"A crime that involved magic must be handled by the Council of Mages, naturally."
"And due to mine intervention, the MageLord shall be glad to speak with thee. Please, go to him soonest!"
"Perhaps if thou couldst provide the 30 guilders which a proper investigation costs...?"
"Most excellent! We shall be to work immediately, and hope to have information very soon. Please return in a few hours."
"That is too bad. However, if we learn anything, we shall inform thee."
"Thou wert wise to follow the advise of the townsfolk in coming to me -- "
"the Rangers must always be consulted in criminal matters."
"Canst thou afford the 20 guilders which a Mages' Analysis would cost?"
"Most excellent! We shall be to work immediately, and hope to have information very soon. Please return to me in a few hours."
"That is too bad. However, the Rangers shall investigate thy mystery. If we learn anything, we shall inform thee."
"What business is it of thine? Who art thou, coming into my city and asking questions?"
"If thou must know, I am Julia, chief of rangers. If thou dost make trouble in Moonshade, I will see that thou art sent to the dungeons!"
"We are the guardians of Moonshade. The City of Mages hath always been guarded by Rangers."
"The tradition doth date to the ancient city of Moon, from whence our ancestors came."
"Dost thou think that the mighty Mages deal with every thief or common brawler? Certainly not!"
"Thou art dredging up ancient history!"
"In days long gone, there was a peaceful land called Sosaria. It was a land of many kingdoms and cultures, a paradise of individuality."
"But times changed. A tyrant named British overthrew the kingdoms and declared himself king."
"There is no need to be vulgar. The Daemon King hath been dead for many centuries. No one doth serve him now."
"The Daemon British enforced a radical scheme of philosophy upon his subjects, forcing them into exile if they would not submit."
"The Mages and Rangers were bound by the travesty known as the Oath of Honesty!"
"Nothing is more cruel than unflinching Honesty. It doth shatter hearts, instill insecurity, and promote civil strife."
"Therefore, our ancestors fled the City of Moon in the land British conquered, and sailed until they found this land."
"Aye, the City of Mages. There is much magic here, and more than a little sorcery."
"The name is symbolic. Moon represents the powers beyond those of mere mortals, just as the moon is suspended over the world."
"As for Shade, it stands for shelter against the cruel light of Honesty. We believe in Truth here, but only within reason."
"Mages use reagents and such like to cast magic. The good or ill of it comes from the caster's intent."
"Magic, in and of itself, is neither good nor evil. But sorcery is another matter altogether."
"Why ask me about them? I am a Ranger, not a Mage!"
"Pothos is the Apothecary here in Moonshade. He will be able to tell thee all about anything that thou wouldst need to cast magic."
"Fedabiblio is the master of novices here in Moonshade. It is his lamentable duty to try and make those miscreants into Mages!"
"If he doth not have time for thee, perhaps he could allow thee to satisfy thy curiosity in the library of magics."
"Sorcery is outlawed here in Moonshade, but that doth not mean that some Mages do not still practice its dark arts."
"Thou dost not know of Bloodspawn? Good!"
"The less that thou knowest, the less trouble that thou canst cause!"
"I will say only that spells of great destruction require that vile compound. I will tell thee no more..."
"Thou art certainly ignorant!"
"My, thou art touchy! I meant no offense... Only that thou didst not know things that are common knowledge here."
"Stoneheart is the ore that produces Bloodspawn. I know not how this is done. I am not a Mage."
"And I would advise thee to use great caution about who thou dost ask... lest thou dost find thyself thrown in the dungeons."
"Beware how thou dost step! The MageLord is apt to send any transgressor into the pits beneath the Mountains of Freedom."
"None have returned from that dank, dark abyss."
"Our city is ruled by Shamino the Anarch, a most powerful wizard."
"He is a great improvement over our previous MageLord, who was indolent and deceitful. I am glad that Shamino rules."
"Our city is ruled by the MageLord Filbercio. He is benevolent and wise, and rules well."
"However, he doth not receive visitors, so do not dream of entering his palace."
"'Tis best not to try and second guess Shamino the Anarch. His definition of a transgression changes from moment to moment..."
"And the fine could be as insignificant as a verbal upbraiding, or as serious as thy life."
"If thou art a Mage, thou must follow the Strictures. If thou art a Mundane, thou must not overly annoy a Mage. That much is simple logic."
"But, as long as Filbercio is the MageLord, thou wouldst do well to remember that it is unhealthy to cross any of Filbercio's whims."
"'Tis not my job to know them. 'Tis for the Council of Mages to enforce."
"Thou art as full of questions as a novice!"
"Usually on the election of a new Council member, or a new MageLord."
"Ha! Now there is a fine jest, if ever I heard one!"
"All that was ever retrieved out of those mountains was the ore that was taken out while it was still a mine!"
"Ever since Filbercio made it a prison, no one hath come out of there again!"
"We make the finest wine that thou wilt find anywhere. Wouldst thou care to try some?"
"Thy loss..."
"Come to the winery when we are open and thou canst sample our wares then!"
"It felt like we were walking into a smith's forge! We had to turn back, and no one hath gone in there since."
I might be tempted to 'loan' thee the key at a price...
A sword may protect thee from the Rat-Men, but only magic can save thee from the fearsome heat.
Return to me for the key when thou hast found the means to survive the heat.
"I will 'loan' thou this key for say... 40 guilders? Is it worth that much to adventure in the catacombs?"
"Well enough! Take this blue key. It will open the gate to the catacombs for thee."
"Art thou trying to jest with me? Thou dost not have 40 guilders!"
"Return when thou hast learned how to count!"
"Let me know if thou dost change thy mind."
"Thou hast wine from our winery! I hope thou didst enjoy it... Hmm. It is the same vintage as the wine that disappeared."
"Hast thou seen our wine press? We are very proud of it."
"The finest wine press in all the land! For it operates by no human hand!"
"Thou hast not heard of the Mad Mage?!"
"His true name is Erstam. He lives on a small island away from Moonshade. He was once the Adepts' mentor... before he went mad."
"Makes me ill to think about them!"
"The Mad Mage thinks that he can learn to create life. Or life from death, I should say."
"Fawn is a pretty city, built on the water. 'Tis on the west side of the mainland."
"Fawn's guard captain is a fellow named Jorvin."
"A girl cannot compete with that."
"I do not know the whole of it, in truth."
"All I know is that Celennia and Frigidazzi had some sort of noisy falling out, over the Mage that came here, I did hear."
"And then Celennia disappears, just like that! Left Frigidazzi in quite a snit, I'll tell thee!"
"Frigidazzi is the Adept that specializes in cold spells. I have heard her referred to as the 'ice maiden'!"
"She and Celennia were good friends until Celennia became involved with that Mage."
"Batlin, I think his name was. Poked around Moonshade for quite a while, asking questions and buying spells."
"Only Frigidazzi knows what happened for certain. And I would not care to ask her about it, either!"
"I did give thee the Crime Certificate already!"
"I shall never speak to thee again!"
"I do not believe that we have met. 'Tis so nice to make the acquaintance of a new, young Mage."
"I am Melino, husband of the Green Enchantress."
"Welcome, Mage. I am pleased to see thee again."
"Of course thou art new here! I know all other Mages in Moonshade... And I have never seen thee before."
"And thou hast thy spellbook, so thou art not a Mundane. Therefore, thou art a Mage."
"By careful reasoning then, thou art a new Mage!"
"But I cannot recall having seen thee in Fedabiblio's training... But then I do not usually take much note of the novices."
"While I am far too busy to sit on the Council, I am well-connected, nonetheless. Many Mages come to consult me during their research."
"I have always been well-connected -- even before I took a seat on the Council. Many Mages come to consult me during their research."
"The current members are Mortegro, Gustacio, and Filbercio... of course."
"The Council of Mages is the ruling body of Moonshade. I did not wish to accept a seat on the Council, but Columna persuaded me..."
"The other members are Gustacio and Filbercio, of course..."
"Why raise the dead for servants when thou hast Mundanes for servants, after all? And we have no need of another Vasculio, that is clear."
"Mortegro was the local necromancer. He specialized in speaking with the dead, not raising them..."
"Or at least that is what we all thought until he disappeared. Perhaps we have been harboring another Vasculio all this time."
"Gone! In a trice! No word to anyone..."
"Gustacio is mightily peeved, I can tell thee. Mortegro was helping him with an experiment, and Gustacio cannot complete his work alone."
"Luckily, Columna hath been very understanding of the time I devote to my work."
"His business hath certainly benefitted from Petra's skills. Petra is one of the finest cooks in the city."
"I think that Petra's presence at the Blue Boar doth do much for Torrissio's reputation..."
"Only from time to time hath one caught mine eye... Like that striking young woman that came through here a while ago."
"I doubt that he doth have any Serpent Teeth left to steal, so thou wilt have to make do with something else I suspect."
"Perhaps Columna would show thee her Serpent Tooth. I know that she possesses it."
"Thou dost not know the Green Enchantress? Ah, perhaps thou wouldst recognize her by the spell she is famous for... Columna's Intuition."
"No other Mage doth have a spell named after them... Of course she is famous! Why everyone agrees how remarkably useful it is!"
"Columna is the Green Enchantress' name. And thou wouldst be amazed by her spell..."
"She said terrible things about my wife! Terrible! All lies! Lies!"
"Why, that is wine from the Rangers' winery! Their magical winepress always leaves a distinctive flavor... Quite a tingle!"
"Any Mage could tell thee that this is a piece of lab equipment!"
"I am missing nothing... 'tis not mine. Thou wilt have to ask others about it."
"What dost thou take me for, a Mundane?!"
"Thou canst find other spells without resorting to those that are restricted."
"I could sell thee several spells, Mage..."
"Those are my wife's stockings! Oh, vile fiend! To think that thou wouldst flaunt Columna's indiscretion in my face! After I trusted thee!"
"Out! OUT! Take thyself from my sight and never return!"
"Certainly..."
"This is the manor of the Enchantress Rotoluncia! Thou canst not enter without permission!"
"I must be about my duties."
"My mistress commands many powerful and strange magics, and sits upon the Council of Mages."
"She is terrible to her enemies, but tolerant of those who aid her."
"As thou now knowest, she is most terrible to those who do not bend to her will."
"I am forbidden to discuss this subject with thee!"
"I must not tell! In fact, thou shouldst leave here at once."
"'Tis not an ordinary scroll, but one of the magical variety. I assure thee that it is entirely free of harmful magic."
"The Mages of Moonshade are quite powerful, and have found the way to acquire servants such as myself."
"My mistress says that automatons are more trustworthy, since we can neither be corrupted nor tortured."
"Thou dost look at me oddly... I think I have said too much!"
"Now I must kill thee..."
"If thou dost not leave quickly, I must call the Rangers!"
"Rotoluncia shall avenge my loss..."
"Here it is."
"Thou hast returned! Wilt thou release me from this forsaken island?"
"Wonderful!"
"Perhaps if thou dost search the building, thou wilt find a way to lower the drawbridge..."
"Suit thyself..."
"Perhaps I can find another way to escape before I starve to death."
"Avatar! I am glad to see thee!"
"Hello, there! I am Mortegro, the Necromage of Moonshade."
"Perhaps if I could see the slippers I could tell thee more about them..."
"Art thou absolutely certain that this thing was a living severed hand? I doubt it is so. Perhaps if thou didst have it to show to me..."
"So! Thou dost suspect me of kidnapping thy friend!"
"Mine interest lies with dead beings, not with living persons. I do not have thy friend, nor do I know who doth have him."
"Thine impudence is beyond belief! Always, 'tis the superstitious and the jealous who persecute the Necromancer..."
"Actually, that is rather unpleasant work. A bit discourteous to talk about it in mixed company, if thou dost know what I mean."
"He is the supreme MageLord of the city of Moonshade."
"Gustacio and I are engaged in studies of the strange teleport storms that have been afflicting our land."
"She is a powerful mage. Her only real weakness is that she is most unpleasant when she is thwarted in her desires."
"Speaking with the spirits of the dead doth fatigue me. We must wait another day before I can muster the energies required."
"I summon you, ghosts! Come join us here and speak with us. Share with us thy visions of this world and the next."
"My darling husband, Iolo, although I am dead I must tell thee that my love for thee shall never die. Always remember me. Farewell."
"I have lost the contact -- there are strange forces connected with this spirit!"
"No! It cannot be true! She cannot be dead! I refuse to believe it!"
"This is a favorable sign for Kane. It may well mean that his brother is not in the realm of ghosts."
"Ahem, once I have gotten back to Moonshade I will be glad to oblige thee."
"I must first prepare the proper materials. Thou shouldst come to my manor after midnight, and we shall then conjure spectres."
"How can I concentrate on teaching thee spells when I am freezing to death by the moment?"
"I can teach thee spells... for a fee."
"Thou art not a Mage, so teaching thee spells would be a waste of both our times."
"If thou art serious about mastering magic, perhaps thou shouldst speak with Master Fedabiblio at the Seminarium."
"But I think thou art too old to learn spell-casting..."
"I allowed Gustacio to convince me to help him with his plan to divert the teleportation storms."
"Perhaps it was not the wisest of things to have done... As I am trapped here and have no idea how to return to Moonshade."
"Yes, there are marks here on the island that suggest that something was here until recently."
"Given the architecture, this must be one of the old Serpent temples. So I assume that this may have been where the altar once stood."
"Wouldst thou allow me to accompany thee back to Moonshade? I am afraid that I do not know where I am."
"I do not believe I could return home without thy guidance... For all that I am an Adept."
"Well, perhaps I can find my way home on mine own... I am an Adept, after all."
"So what'rt thou looking at, eh?"
"I smell something... thou hast some fish! Thou hast brought it for me! Oh, I do so love a good fish."
"Oh, it is my friend! Hast thou brought me something? No, I suppose not..."
"Why dost thou not leave me alone?"
"Well, do not stare at me like that. I be innocent. They've never convicted me of any crimes..."
"What's it to ye? Some call me the Rat Woman, but I'll have ye know that my rightful name is Mosh."
"Aye, Mosh..."
"..and I am linked by fate to Columna, the Green Enchantress! She is my very own sister."
"Would that thou wert to believe me, I could tell thee a story! 'Tis done... though not forgotten. I will not talk of it now."
"I tell thee that I have a twin. She is Columna! Yet wert thou to see us together, any similarity would be gone."
"It is she who possesses the youth and beauty I held dear not long ago. But ask whether love passes between us and I will tell thee nay."
"Snigger not at me! I have company enough -- more guests in mine house than thou couldst have in thine."
"I was a powerful enchantress, in my prime. Before I was cheated of my powers."
"'Tis not a bad place to live."
"Each one of us makes of life what we can, whether by fate or the treachery of others. Dost thou see me judging ye?"
"The rats are my friends. Dost thou not like my companions?"
"Good! Then with time, perhaps, we could learn to like thee."
"Then I do not like thee!"
"I was once a beautiful young woman, and not so many years ago as thou mightest believe! There was a young mage who wanted mine hand -- "
"Trulacci, whose ill-fated son now languishes in the depths of the Mountains of Freedom."
"It was Columna who stole him from my love, by using her magics on him. Yet she never loved him... he was simply a toy to her."
"But another stole Trulacci's heart from me, and I shall never forgive her for that!"
"Where hath he gone? Bah, I know not. Nor, for that matter, do I care!"
"Rubbish! 'Tis long gone, and I am an old woman now."
"Let me be honest with thee. My powers have dwindled to nothingness. I can teach thee no spell worth knowing!"
"My spells are not for sale, not to the likes of such as thyself. But assume not that all my powers have left me, for some still remain."
"I have no need for others, when I can create mine own friends."
"Cheated, and by mine own sister, wouldst thou believe it!"
"Yet it is as nothing compared to the greater swindles which she practices. She doth conspire against Nature itself, didst thou know?"
"Without it, she would be exactly like me! I know not where she keeps it. But I am certain it is in a well hidden spot."
"I will not speak of that now, but suffice it to say that she who looks like me deep inside hath taken from me all that should be mine!"
"Thou shouldst speak to she who hath done me wrong: The Sorceress Columna, whom they sometimes call the Green Sorceress."
"Listen to what she says!"
"So thou hast spoken to that hag! Tell me now -- dost thou believe me, or she?"
"Thou art worthless."
"Thou dost truly believe me now... ah, I see that thou dost. Thou art truly one I can say is my friend."
"I smell something... thou hast some fish! Oh, I do so love a good fish."
"If thou art ever in need, come to me. I shall give thee anything I possess. Thou dost see, I have a good heart."
"And if thou dost ever have something that I could use, please bring it. Nothing large. Perhaps a morsel of food."
"I thank ye for thy fish, as I do love it!"
"And know that my little ones call ye friend as well, as do their larger cousins."
"This is the Blue Boar Inn, and I am the barmaid. My name is Petra."
"I am only an automaton, with no hope that any soul I may have will join Rocco in the world beyond this one. There is nothing left for me."
"Is this not a nice day?"
"Oh, this is horrible! Though I am but a woman of metal, I have a heart that feels pain for thee."
"Thou shouldst go quickly to Julia -- the Rangers can solve crimes such as this!"
"I will do so with haste. I have duties which need attending."
"Dost thou wish thy belongings returned to thee?"
"Here they are."
"Thy companions carry some of thine inventory."
"Then I will keep thine inventory for thee. Find me if thou changest thy mind."
"Thou hast returned for thy belongings. Dost thou want them now?"
"Here they are."
"Thy companions carry some of thine inventory."
"Then I will continue to keep thine inventory for thee. Find me if thou dost truly want them returned."
"The finest eating and drinking establishment in all Moonshade! Run by the finest man in all Moonshade..."
"What madness art thou saying, Petra?"
"It is not madness, Rocco. I am proud of thee..."
"Rocco, the innkeeper. A finer man thou shalt not find."
"Oh, of course! I did not mean to bore thee..."
"Thou canst not have failed to notice that I am an automaton. Torrissio is my maker... Curse his black heart!"
"But I escaped and Rocco took me in."
"I am a magical construct. An animated body of metal."
"Yet I can think. I can reason. And I believe I can care for others."
"If thou dost love, if thou hast compassion for others, if thou dost feel the injustice of the world, art thou not said to possess a soul?"
"If I have all these things, can I not say that I, too, have a soul?"
"In this I am unique, for none of the other automatons claim to feel emotions as I do. But I do not know why I should be different."
"However, the magic did not originate with Torrissio --"
"Even with all his magic, Torrissio cannot construct new automatons --"
"What better servants to have? Automatons can exist for centuries without any maintenance at all."
"They ask nothing. They expect nothing. They do what task is assigned to them until their magic at last fails, and then they simply stop."
"Rocco could be killed easily, and spells are untraceable. Or he could be spirited away to hideous torture. No one would be the wiser."
"So I look after him as best I can, even as he doth care for me. It also helps that everyone believes the tale we have spread."
"Rocco hath led everyone to believe that he and Torrissio reached an agreement to have me work here to advertise Torrissio's skill."
"In truth, my cooking ability doth do Torrissio no small credit. And I dare say that it wins him many customers as well."
"Can I bring thee something?"
"Let me see if I understand thee correctly. Thou wishest me to accompany thee to an ancient temple."
"Once there, I will take thy form, and thou wilt take mine, for a brief period of time. Hmmm..."
"It sounds intriguing. I shall discover, if only for an instant, what it is to truly be human."
"No, I must decline thine offer. Though I have enjoyed thy companionship, I must return to Moonshade. I must bury my beloved Rocco."
"If thou dost wish it, then I shall accompany thee. Perhaps the danger shall cause me to forget my grief."
"I think thou art merely trying to cheer me. For this, I thank thee, but nothing can fill an empty heart."
"If only there were a way to put thy courage into my metal body..."
"Once we find the Body Transferance Chamber, I will oblige thee."
"If thou canst promise my safety, I will agree to aid thee."
"Dost thou give me thy promise?"
"These temples are awful old. I hope thou knowest what thou art doing."
"Then I am sorry, but I will not take any unnecessary risks."
"Yes, I remember thee from the banquet -- Rotoluncia wanted to kill thee!"
"Welcome to the Apothecary Shop. I am Pothos, the proprietor."
"I am Pothos, the Apothecary in this city."
"If thou desirest potions, reagents, or other ingredients such as are customary in the practice of magic, come to my shop."
"Thou dost have the Blood Moss! Wonderful!"
"What can I do for thee?"
"Thy friend was taken by magical means? 'Tis incredible. Thou art new to this town..."
"Julia of the Rangers might be of aid to thee, but I doubt it. This matter concerns magic, and she is merely Mundane."
"I advise thee to speak to Fedabiblio -- he can counsel thee well. And he doth have connections in high places."
"While it is true that I am a Mage, I am not an Adept. And Filbercio invites only Adepts to his banquets, as a rule."
"Filbercio is the MageLord! And thou wouldst do well not to forget that while thou art in Moonshade."
"Filbercio is a man of great passions. The Mountains of Freedom are a powerful argument against crossing him in any way."
"The only problem is that none have ever won free. And Filbercio reigns unchallenged."
"Most of the offenders that find themselves within the confines of Freedom are there because they angered Filbercio in some way."
"The very existence of Freedom silences most of the MageLord's detractors."
"I myself can only master the third level of spells. An Adept can master the ninth level of spells."
"Only an Adept can become MageLord, or sit on the Council of Mages. So I make my living selling reagents to Adepts."
"I tried. But these storms have brought fierce monsters into that area... And I'm no Adept to deal with them."
"Hast thou reconsidered mine offer?"
"Thou art my savior! I shall await thy return eagerly."
"My fate is certain!"
"Thou knowest?!"
"Thou art my savior! I shall await thy return eagerly."
"Then I have nothing to bargain with. I shall certainly end my life in the Mountains of Freedom now!"
"Like Filbercio, Rotoluncia doth have a will of steel and a fiery temper."
"She is convinced that some outside force is responsible for these abominable storms."
"I wonder... perhaps Rotoluncia could have had something to do with thy companion's demise?"
"If thou dost wish to visit her, she lives in a manor in the northeast corner of the city."
"Well, to be precise, I should say that she suspects a recent visitor -- a Mage named Batlin."
"And I'm afraid that she thinks all strangers are in league with Batlin. Of course, it did not help that he had that Daemon, either..."
"Little, fat man... Small beard and mustache... Angry scowl. I'm sure thou wilt remember him if thou hast met him."
"Batlin seemed very interested in learning more of the history of the ancient people of this land -- the ones we call the Ophidians."
"Fedabiblio keeps the library here in Moonshade. All information, whether historical or magical in nature, finds its way to his hands."
"He is also the teacher of the novices, so I'm certain that he will be able to help thee with any questions thou mightest have."
"No one would sell... Who knows, perhaps he hoped to make some sort of deal with my father for them."
"No one would sell... Who knows, perhaps he hoped to make some sort of deal with the Mad Mage for them."
"Definitely magic-born, no doubt about it. Anyone caught outside during one risks being teleported into oblivion."
"I certainly hope so. Moonshade is isolated until they do."
"Gustacio is an Adept that specializes in working with the weather... the power of nature, and all that."
"Mortegro is an Adept that specializes in speaking with the dead. He doth not bind them to service or anything, simply talks to them."
"Why Gustacio wants Mortegro's help, I'll never know. Unless the dead are responsible for the storms, or something."
"I sell everything that thou wouldst need to cast spells or do magic..."
"Unfortunately, I have a very limited supply of most things right now."
"Oh -- didst thou forget? How embarrassing..."
"Isn't it interesting that Blood Moss is so potent, since it is connected with the fluid of life? Blood... But I'm babbling..."
"The password is @Iskatradeeth@."
"To call the creature, go to the docks. There, thou shalt find a ship's bell."
"My, thou art impatient! I was just about to tell thee..."
"I Re-Ten Bentas Juxark I! Praetimde Mir-Wis Re-Por I."
"To learn its meaning, translate it from the language of Magic."
"Alas -- as is often the case, 'tis not required to understand power to use it."
"No, no, no -- thou shouldst learn of the password first! Thou dost need it most of all, for Erstam shall not speak with thee without it!"
"What dost thou need?"
"What potion dost thou wish to purchase?"
"What reagents dost thou desire to buy?"
"What magic items wouldst thou care to buy?"
"Julia is a rather forbidding woman. Always seems to be looking for thy secret desire to cause trouble, if thou knowest what I mean."
"She's quite competent, but not overly warm. I've actually seen her rebuff the MageLord's advances... A formidable woman, indeed."
"Erstam was the mentor of most of the Adepts. He was a hard master, so they say."
"These look more like something a Mundane would wear. Thou mightest check with Bucia over at the Capessii Canton."
"If any one person could be considered the heart of Moonshade, I'd be hard-pressed to say whether it was Bucia or Rocco."
"Rocco is the proprietor of the Blue Boar Inn. Most of the people in the city -- Mage and Mundane alike -- eat there."
"Strange name, isn't it? 'Tis actually Flindo's shop, but he's away so much that Bucia runs it."
"'Tis a Mage's equipment. But I don't recognize the style."
"Every Mage prefers something different from the others. This isn't one I'm familiar with, but I'm not that well-connected."
"Thou shouldst ask Master Ducio. Or, better yet, Topo -- if thou dost wish an answer."
"Ducio is a Master Artisan. His work is incredibly good -- when he does any work at all."
"Topo is the unfortunate boy that Master Ducio took for an apprentice. He's the one that does all the work at the shop."
"The service is quicker and much friendlier."
"Eyeh! Please, put it away!"
"What else wouldst thou call a man who hacks his assistants to pieces for his experiments?!"
"How didst thou come by that?!"
"No! I did not ask that! I do not want to know!"
"Of course, as an apothecary, I could buy it from thee... And find a buyer or two with clearance to possess it."
"I could make thee a good offer... Say, 120 guilders. Wilt thou sell it?"
"Wonderful! This will be far less trouble for thee..."
"It produces Bloodspawn when mixed with a quantity of blood... Well, I am getting ahead of myself."
"If thou hast a ritual blood-letting device -- which is technically forbidden as well -- thou must fill a small container with blood."
"Welcome to the Blue Boar Inn. I am the innkeeper. My name is Rocco."
"I do not believe we've met. I'm Rocco, the innkeeper at the Blue Boar."
"'Tis good to have more visitors again. We had despaired, what with the storms and all."
"'Tis that she-witch, Rotoluncia! Everyone knows that she doth work against thee."
"Interesting name, is it not?"
"Let me think a moment. I am terrible with names like this... Aha! I have it! The old lands were known as Sosaria."
"I'll simply say that I am mighty glad that my Petra is metal. That alone may keep her safe from his wandering eye."
"Such a one did come through here, perhaps two months ago."
"Yes, she's right... it was three months ago."
"Thou dost know her! She and I are the closest of friends. She stayed here for many weeks."
"It hath been a long time since we last saw Gwenno. Many months."
"I am sorry I was not more helpful..."
"We serve nothing pretentious, but it fills the belly and warms the soul."
"Petra is a surprisingly good cook, considering that she is an automaton."
"Return when we be open!"
"Do not mention that name again, Rocco! Why summon more trouble than we already have?"
"She's my serving wench, as well as being a damn fine cook -- which, considering she can neither eat nor taste, is rather incredible."
"We serve only the finest of beverages."
"Come talk to me when we be open for business!"
"We've nothing fancy -- simply clean rooms, and we keep the ruffians out."
"But thou lookest to be a respectable person."
"The cost is 12 guilders per person. Wouldst thou like a room for the night?"
"Here is thy key."
"'Tis the northwest corner room."
"Then thou canst not stay at the inn. In these hard times, I cannot afford to keep thee and thy companions for free."
"Thou hast not enough guilders for my rooms."
"Some other time, perhaps."
"Good luck to thee! With no ships sailing, there is no way to go to Fawn from here."
"Sounds dangerous to me..."
"That is because thou canst not swim, Petra."
"Again?! When is Stefano not in trouble?"
"I would thank thee not to repeat that in here. As Petra says, no use borrowing trouble..."
"I knew thou wert learning, Rocco."
"Oh, go on with thee!"
"They are not anything that I would wear, and Petra's metal feet are never cold... least not as she would notice."
"I would know that it was cold, dear Rocco, but it would not trouble me."
"See there?"
"But thou mightest ask Bucia. She may sell something like that."
"Good idea, Petra!"
"Bucia is the proprietor of the Capessi Canton in the bazaar. She is Moonshade's only provisioner."
"And its greatest gossip, as well!"
"Petra, honestly!"
"Bucia may be able to tell thee if she sells anything like them. And who purchased them."
"With my dying breath, I place the Curse of the Red Witch upon thee!"
"Arrgh..."
"So, thou hast come to rescue thy friend? Well, thou must kill me first -- I have the only key to his cell!"
"Or wilt thou tell me the secret which I desire, the key to controlling Daemons!!!"
"Then thou shalt die, liar."
"This is thy last chance -- wilt thou tell me the secret which I desire, the key to controlling Daemons!!!"
"Thou shalt not live to regret this. Open thy mind to me!"
"Then thou shalt die with thy secret, Avatar..."
"I am speaking to thee from beyond the grave. I shall have vengeance!"
"Greetings, Stranger from Another Land. Once again, I am speaking to thee by means of a magic scroll."
"Since thou wilt not give me thy secrets, I shall obtain them from him!"
"Greetings, Stranger from Another Land. I am speaking to thee by means of this magic scroll -- there is no need to be afraid."
"Afraid? Why, the Avatar is not afraid of magic."
"But all barbarians fear sorcery."
"Who said that! Death draws near for those who taunt Rotoluncia the Red Witch."
"I am the most powerful wizard in this city, and I could teach thee many things -- if thou wert not a mere Mundane."
"But the Avatar is not a Mundane..."
"What is this that they say?"
"Thou art not a mage, or I would have detected thy powers by now."
"Or... perhaps thou dost shield thine abilities from my senses? Most interesting..."
"So my servant told thee that I sit on the Council of Mages? Perhaps I shall dismantle him to adjust a loose tongue..."
"Indeed, I am one of the Three who rule this city, along with Gustacio the Decrepit, and that weak-willed profligate, Filbercio."
"Thou dost surprise me. Most Mundanes are frightened by the very idea of sorcery."
"Indeed, thou art from a distant land if thou dost not know such a common term."
"The world is divided into two sorts of Men -- those who can handle magics, and mere ordinary folk."
"Not so fast! Thou shouldst know that I met with thine ally, the fat and loathsome sage called Batlin..."
"He travelled with a Daemon named Palos. Where did Batlin obtain such power? If I had this power, I could rule Serpent Isle!"
"Reveal to me the secret of controlling Daemonfolk, and I shall reward thee with power beyond thy comprehension."
"Then open thy mind to me, and let me withdraw the knowledge which I lust after!"
"Thy friends must learn not to interfere in the interests of mages. Let them learn now!!!"
"I shall contact thee again, when perhaps thou shalt be more receptive to mine offers. Adieu."
"What! What's happening..."
"Allow me to introduce myself. I'm Topo the Artisan, apprenticed to Master Ducio."
"I'm a lucky man, to serve such a talented craftsman."
"Someday I hope to be as rich and lazy as my master!"
"He spends all his time asleep or at the inn, except when he comes here to make me crazy with his nagging."
"Again, welcome! Might I be able to help thee today?"
"Yes, master..."
"Again, welcome! As thou canst see, Master Ducio is not here at present. Perhaps I can help thee."
"I am terribly sorry for thee at this sensitive time. Grief is a natural emotion..."
"Thou shouldst bring this matter to the attention of the Rangers. Julia would not let such an injustice stand, I am sure of it."
"I have worked with Master Ducio for several years now. Soon I'll be able to open a shop of mine own... Topo's Treasures, I'll call it."
"Thou art an apprentice, boy! Thou dost not work with me. Thou dost work for me! Understand?"
"Yes, master..."
"That is what my Master actually specializes in... making everyone else do his work!"
"Unless thou art my Master, that is!"
"The only thing a lowly Mundane can hope for is to be able to afford an automaton from Torrissio, to help with the work load."
"Torrissio is the Adept that makes the automatons. No one knows how he does it..."
"Art thou a Mage, Topo?"
"No, master... I am a Mundane apprentice."
"Then thou dost not know what a Mage may or may not know!"
"Yes, master..."
"Andrio is my friend... which is surprising since he is also a novice Mage. Perhaps the outrageous arrogance hath not developed in him yet."
"Enough talk! Back to work!"
"Yes, master..."
"How many times have I told thee to stay away from that thief, boy?! Dost thou think stealing is funny?"
"Nooo, master..."
"I should hope not! Or I'd break thine head for thee!"
"Yes, master..."
"Now, if only someone would turn Ducio into a workbench, it would be the most useful he's ever been!"
"Yet they will never know the thrill of having a fine pot shape itself under their hand from a formless piece of mud..."
"Mud?! Mud! Back to work! Thou must lack for things to do..."
"Yes, master... I mean, no, Master..."
"And heavens know that I'm patient enough... dealing with my slug of a Master!"
"But if the piece is heated or cooled too quickly, it becomes brittle and fragile. 'Tis a very exacting task."
"Who made thee a teacher, apprentice?! Back to work!"
"Yes, master..."
"Ducio is my Master. He produces the finest goods in all the city! His pottery is famed throughout the other islands as well..."
"Enough bragging. Humility. Thou must learn humility.@"
"If ever I believed in shape changing, I believe it with Ducio! That man is too lazy to be human... a slug, maybe. But a human, no."
"If it weren't for me and the automatons, he'd have to join old Mosh out begging!"
"Mosh is the town beggar. She's very ugly... and crazy, too."
"She claims to be Columna's twin sister!"
"She is also known as the Green Enchantress. She's quite pretty, in her own way. For a Mage..."
"The Master doth dine at the inn at this hour. Thou canst find him there."
"No doubt the Master is yet at home, getting his rest after a long day."
"Yet I, who work far harder and longer than he, must be here promptly at dawn."
"'Tis a dirty business, this apprenticeship thing. I despise it."
"I haven't a clue, except that I'm here doing all of the work, and he's not."
"The Blue Boar inn. 'Tis in the northern part of the city, just west of the Palace. Many of the Mages eat there as well."
"Thou canst bargain Rocco down on his prices, if thou dost try hard enough."
"Rocco is the innkeeper at the Blue Boar. He's a gruff man, whose sole pleasure in life seems to be haggling. Well, besides Petra, that is."
"Petra is an automaton. She is Torrissio's master work... She looks exactly like a real woman, but of metal. She's quite remarkable."
"Petra looks after Rocco, and cooks for the inn. In fact, she serves the finest baked fish around. Thou shouldst try it some time."
"As thou hast probably deduced, I am an expert craftsman -- particularly with pots and urns."
"Show me thine urn, and I shall unlock its secrets for thee."
"Yes, master."
"Indeed. Note the simple scrollwork, the plain glazing, the orange hue of the clay..."
"Now look within. Dost thou see the ashes which fill this urn?"
"Thou dost carry the funeral remains of one of the good citizens of Monitor, the warrior city."
"Bring it by, and I shall give thee thine answer."
"Thou couldst see if Hawk is at the Blue Boar. He's a sailor and might know more than a man who's never left this island."
"Since when art thou a guide? Back to work!"
"Yes, master..."
"Zounds, I don't know... 'Tis like nothing I've seen before."
"Definitely do not look like anything that a Mage would have lost. They have much more expensive tastes..."
"Thou couldst try asking Bucia, though. If anyone might know where these slippers came from, it would be her."
"Thou art a fine one to talk! Work! Or I shall rip out thy tongue!"
"Yes, master..."
"As an expert craftsman, I can tell thee what most materials are, if I can examine the item."
"Yes, master."
"Odd brush... Certainly doth not seem like anything a lady would want."
"Look. See how porous the handle is... This definitely isn't wood. And I don't think it would last with strenuous use."
"Bring it with thee some time and I shall tell thee what it is made of."
"If thou wouldst talk to me when I am at work, I would gladly sell thee something."
"I am Torrissio, a Mage of Moonshade."
"I am not a sociable man, so this will be brief. What dost thou desire of me, and at what price?"
"I am flattered by the suspicions, but alas... I am innocent in this case."
"As thou canst surely see, thy companion is not being held prisoner in my manor. Look around at thy pleasure."
"Search my manor! I have no prisoners there..."
"Could it be Mortegro, he for whom the cold sensations of death are more vivid than life?"
"And what of Rotoluncia? She dislikes thee -- everyone knows it."
"If I were thee, I would speak to MageLord Filbercio about this matter. Mages are involved, so thy duty is clear."
"I am Torrisso of Moonshade, Adept Mage and master of life spells."
"Moonshade is in many ways a perfect city, a perfect example of civilization with that highest form of government -- a Magocracy."
"That looks like the sort of equipment used by Erstam, the Mad Mage! He lives at the place called Mad Mage Island."
"If thou had the item I am certain I could tell thee more about it."
"I would ask about them at the Inn of Sleeping Bull if I were thee."
"That would be the bloodline of the MageLord of Moonshade, Filbercio."
"My personal specialty is spells involving healing and the sustenance of life energies."
"Why, that fat sage that passed through town a while ago. Batlin. I remember not the specifics of the transaction."
"Do not even raise this topic -- I have no stomach for the political games which one must play in order to win a seat on the Council."
"He is a shrewd and stern ruler. A highly skilled mage. He is not someone thou wouldst want to cross."
"I was allied with Rotoluncia, but her death makes our partnership void."
"Of course, in the realm of politics as well as the realm of magic what is one today may very well be the other tomorrow!"
"Partners with Rotoluncia in politics. But partners with Columna in love."
"Rotoluncia was quite repulsed yet fascinated with Batlin and his secrets. To think of it makes me wish to offer thee a word of advice."
"I do not wish to burden thee with my personal problems. The less said of these things, the better."
"She came passing through our city several weeks ago. From what I hear, she is a most unusual and interesting woman."
"Now that he hath dared to show his face again, it shall be him who is destroyed. Columna and I have already seen to that!"
"When Filbercio sentenced him to death in the Mountains of Freedom, I laughed until blood ran from mine eyes!"
"It will serve that cretin good, to be entombed with the rats and maggots in that prison."
"Surrender those stockings to me."
"Excellent! First let us enjoy some wine! Wilt thou accept this glass of fine wine?"
"Thou dost not trust me, eh? So be it..." *"Ha! The stockings are now mine!"
"Thou dost not trust me? Then be on thy way! All I wanted were the stockings..."
"After all, Columna is more of a woman than thou canst ever hope to be."
"Bah! Thou art only trying to taunt me! Leave me at once!"
"I ask thee again -- surrender those stockings to me!"
"As thou dost have something I want, then I am obliged to provide something to thee that thou couldst want."
"I offer thee one of my spells in exchange for the stockings. If thou dost accept, then give them to me."
"Ha! Now I have what I want and I did not have to give thee a thing! Thou art not dealing with a child here!"
"Thou art as cold-hearted as any man I have ever met! I can no longer tolerate thy company."
"Bah! Thou art only trying to taunt me! Leave me at once!"
"I ask thee again -- surrender those stockings to me!"
"Pay the price, the Philanderer's Friend, and I shall reward thee!"
"Why, I already gave thee my prize! What more dost thou expect?"
"Then again, thou didst restore the wand to me -- and the Philanderer's Friend is a great prize..."
"Thou hast paid the price, I shall grant thee thy desires. Thou hast but to ask."
"Deliver the wand to me, and thou shalt have thy desires!"
"Sadly, thou hast nothing that I desire. I have no need for gold, and thou dost not know any spells which I crave..."
"Ah, but thou art a strong warrior! I have an idea."
"An item was stolen from me, a wand which is great in the magic which it controls. Bring it to me, and I shall aid thee."
"The wand is known as the Philanderer's Friend. I know not where it lies. Good luck, adventurer!"
"Thou art not the first to seek this secret from me, adventurer! That fat fool Batlin purchased it from me, too."
"Good! Thou hast brought it with thee -- and now I shall take it!"
"It is my rightful property and I shall have it back!"
"Master, I am grateful that thou dost still live! I have grown fond of thee, almost as a son looks upon a parent..."
"It might please thee to know that there is good news!"
"I have a body! I have a body!"
"Hello, there!"
"Now I see thee. Greetings! I am Boydon, the Living Head."
"Yes, I do. Strange, is it not?"
"Master, I have taken the time to speak with the Mages of this place. I do believe that the one known as Gustacio is of a mind to aid thee."
"He said that anyone who can survive Freedom is worthy of his time!"
"My name is Boydon."
"I do hope I shall be of some assistance to thee as I travel with thee during thine adventures! I am having quite a bit of fun, actually."
"Oh, I am afraid I cannot tell thee anything about that. After all, I was merely the Mad Mage's assistant."
"Is that not amazing? It doth go far beyond my comprehension of life and death. The mind fairly boggles at the ramifications of it."
"I feel I am capable of doing most anything in my present condition."
"In fact, I was wondering if thou couldst use someone like me to accompany thee in thy travels and adventures."
"Wouldst thou like me to join thee?"
"If thou wouldst ever change thy mind, or find thyself in need of a companion, I would be most honored if thou wouldst consider me."
"That is wonderful news! Lead on!"
"But there are so many in thy travelling party! I am not accustomed to crowds."
"If that is what thou dost truly want, I will leave. But if thou dost ever change thy mind, do ask me to join again and I will."
"Also, please take this serpent tooth as a token of mine appreciation."
"Once thou hast found the jawbone, return to me -- for I have something else to give thee as well."
"Begone from my sight! Thy meddling in my business is unwelcome, stranger!"
"Thou dost have the distinct bearing of a Britannian about thee! No doubt thou art some fiend in league with that evil Beast British!"
"What is this I hear?"
"Iskatradeeth! The password? Then I shall not feed thee to the whales..."
"I shall speak with thee... for the moment."
"Aye, thou wilt see many of them strewn about as thou dost look around the manor."
"But Master, thou dost know something of teleportation! What about the...?"
"So I have given away thy secret? Do not beat me! Please Master! Do not beat me!"
"Someone must survive the end of the world. That person may as well be me."
"Finally, the secrets of the universe are nearly within my grasp!"
"That is what I am seeking to do!"
"So, hurry!"
"Thou art welcome to it."
"Did I not give thee the key to my storeroom? If thou canst not find it, thou art not as intelligent as I thought thou to be!"
"We shall speak of this after thou hast helped me with mine experiment."
"Concern thyself not with him. I shall deal with him later!"
"Thou wilt have to discover the way back by thyself. Thou canst not expect me to tell thee everything!"
"Excellent! Then go and bring to me my phoenix egg. I shall send thee there immediately."
"Thou canst put from thy mind that serpent jawbone then!"
"Thou hast returned without my phoenix egg! Is this some kind of great meaningless joke to thee?"
"Then bring it to me!"
"Then thou must go back to the Isle of the Phoenix!"
"If so I do not find it funny! Thou art not playing a game, fool! Go, and do not return until thou hast completed thy promised task!"
"Dost thou have my phoenix egg?"
"Quickly, put the egg into the machine!"
"If thou dost have my phoenix egg, why dost thou not give it to me?"
"Then we have nothing further to discuss until thou dost go and bring it to me."
"Very good! So thou dost have all of the body parts in the vat! Two arms, two legs, and a torso?"
"Doth that include the head?"
"Excellent! Then wait until the life-creating reaction begins! But I warn thee, it may be dangerous. I am staying here."
"Then thou must find the head and put it in the hopper before the experiment can begin."
"Thou art a leadpate even worse than Vasel! Go and finish thy task and return to me!"
"I think Boydon hath been created rather well! Thou hast done an excellent job in assisting me in his creation."
"Here is the key to my storeroom. There thou wilt find the secret of teleportation. It is an old serpent jawbone."
"Yes. Very nice. I have already given thee my serpent teeth. I have no more of them. Good luck to thee."
"Yes, I see that thou hast found thy way into my storeroom and back."
"Here is a serpent's tooth. This will allow thee to travel back from whence thou didst come."
"As to the method of how it works -- Thou hast proven thyself intelligent. Discern it for thyself."
"Here is another tooth. It will allow thee to travel back to this island. Although, I trust that it shall not be necessary to do so."
"Here is a tooth that will enable thee to travel to another place."
"If thou dost wish to know the mystery of that object, the answer is simple."
"Glance into my telescope, and its magical view shall penetrate the universe for thee!"
"Bring the item to me, and I shall discern its origin. Or perhaps I won't. We shall see."
"I recognize that! I have not seen it in some time, in fact."
"That rightfully belongs to me, and I find it most suspicious that thou didst come into possession of it!"
"But, of course! It must have been a teleportation storm!"
"I want that back! It belongs to me!"
"That item resembles one of my laboratory apparati -- but I don't recall that anything is missing..."
"That is a remnant from one of mine experiments, something for Vasel to clean after. What art thou doing carrying that thing around?"
"I do not know about thee... Thou art a strange one!"
"Bring it to me, and I shall inspect it! It might be from one of my experiments..."
"Certainly..."
"What dost thou want, if thou dost not want to beat me?"
"Thou hast come to beat me again, I know it!"
"I am an orphan. I have no name. My parents were so poor they could not afford to give me one!"
"They called me that when I was young. But looking back on it, I think they meant it in a complimentary way."
"'Tis my master who calls me Vasel. Thou mayest address me by that name as well."
"They shall be carving that name on thy tombstone if thou dost not return to work!"
"I serve Erstam. He is the master of this Manor."
"There is something about him that reminds me of my stepmother! Call it crazy if thou wilt!"
"He is the one who is called the Mad Mage!"
"Thou dost dare to speak that name in my presence, thou cretin?! I said I do not want to hear that name come from thy lips ever again!"
"Never again! Never again! I promise! Do not beat me, Master!"
"I am the custodian of the Manor. I assist the Master in his experiments. I am also called upon to do the housekeeping."
"The Master's house is very old, and constantly in need of repair."
"That is correct, Vasel! Thou shouldst be returning to thine appointed chores!"
"The Master's experiments are of an extremely secret nature. They are also quite dangerous."
"Vasel, thou art a fool! I will not tolerate thee giving away my precious secrets! Stop it at once!"
"Yes, Master... I am sorry... Please do not beat me...!"
"I am not the first to have worked as the Master's assistant. Nor, I fear, shall I be the last. There have been many of us."
"Hmph! A lazy lout he was, as well. We shall not miss him!"
"He was another one who was dead from the neck up!"
"Dost thou not actually mean dead from the neck down?"
"Yes, very well, Vasel. I shall concede that point."
"Enough with this maudlin waste of time! Back to work with thee, Vasel!"
"This place becomes quite... unkempt, and requires constant cleaning. 'Tis a dreadful thing to do! I hate the cleanings! I hate them!"
"Stop thy whining, Vasel! Back to work with thee!"
"The experiments are, to say the least, quite messy..."
"Because I have to... to touch... all those things! I have to pick them up, with all their little squeaky noises... and squirming!"
"Snakes would be pleasant compared to what thou canst find here..."
"'Tis not so hideous. Sometimes I amuse myself, taking the Teeth out and putting them back into the Jawbone..."
"And I do not doubt that she could... and would!"
"Until my father disappeared six months ago, I was a Captain in the Monitor Wolf Command."
"Father said I were too much like my great-grandfather, Silverpate. He never thought I'd amount to much, even after I'd made Captain."
"It like to broke his heart when Wilfred ran away to Monitor. That's where the @Lord@ Wilfred hies from..."
"He acts like a swaggering noble, with all his self-important ambition."
"Aye... I stood up to dinner that night. I remember."
"Thou hast seen the changes, I'm sure..."
"What can I tell thee that thou dost not already know?"
"Where to start?"
"A hardy bunch, are we not? Not as hot-headed as those Bears, and much more tightly knit than those Leopards."
"The Magic Storms have wrecked every boat on this coast except one. That vessel belongs to Captain Hawk."
"Bah! She's no more afraid of those storms than thou art! She follows thee about right well enough, storm or no!"
"'Twas the bull's defeat that gave the village its name... And, in turn, became the name of the inn itself."
"Wilt thou apologize? Or shall I take my recompense from thine hide?"
"So be it then!" ~"Prepare thyself to be thrashed!"
"Mother doth do all the cooking here... and she is very good."
"What a nice son! He compliments me so!"
"It IS true."
"Return when we be open, and I will sell thee a meal!"
"If thou wilt return when we are open, I will sell thee a drink!"
"The cost is 8 gold coins per person. Wouldst thou like a room for the night?"
"Here is the key to room number 3."
"The rooms are upstairs."
"I do believe thou dost not have enough gold coins for a room."
"Some other time, then."
"Rabindrinath vents his anger by troubling the dreams of those who venture here."
"I know many songs..." ~"Dost thou wish to hear one I have already sung?" ~"Or dost thou wish to hear a new song?"
"I'm sorry... Thou hast heard all of my songs."
"For those with an adventurous spirit, I can tell thee of the northern savages."
"For those who wish to hear of a lost civilization, I can tell thee of the people who left the ruins on this continent."
"For those who would hear a tale of bitter bravery, I can tell thee of the lost king."
"None can say if they are intelligent." ~"They build no structures and speak no recognizable language."
"There is also a song about the northern savages." ~"Wouldst thou care to hear it?"
"All right, then..."
"Perhaps some other time, then."
"It can't be!"
"There must be some mistake!"
"There is a song about the lady." ~"Wouldst thou care to hear it?"
"It is a sad ballad indeed..."
"Another time, then."
"There is a song about the other castle, as well." ~"Wouldst thou care to hear it?"
"Prepare thyselves..."
"Another time, then."
"I believe that thou hast already heard that one." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"My pleasure..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"I hope thou dost enjoy it..."
"I seem to remember singing this for thee before..." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"One more time then..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"Relax and be at ease..."
"I am sure that thou hast already..." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"As thou wishest..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"I believe I remember it..."
"I fear that thou dost already know this one..." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"Thou canst sing along if thou wishest..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"I think this be the right key..."
"I have done this one for thee before..." "~Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"Very well..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"Thou wilt like the tempo on this one..."
"Thou knowest this one..." "~Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"I am cheered that thou dost like it..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"Listen carefully..."
"Could ye unlock this door and let me go?"
"Thou canst talk ta me at the pub!"
"That worm!" ~"He'd spit in yer last cup of grog he would, if he thought he could make money off it!"
"Thou art a fine one to talk, thou bilge-water rat!" ~"Thou wouldst hold an honest merchant hostage to thy drinking sprees!"
"Will you two be quiet!" ~"You are loud enough to wake the dead..." ~"And I am beginning to lose patience with both of you!"
"Flindo was the one that bribed the Pikemen into pulling me away from the fight he started!"
"Aye, bribed!" ~"I heard some of those scum..."
"...Er, Pikemen. Sorry, Argus."
"She must have been someone's servant. Said she wanted ta go home for a visit. Said she might be here for me ta take her back."
"Selina certainly isn't one of those over-dressed mages, for sure!" ~"She's too timid ta be anything but a servant."
"I don't think she said, but I did perceive it was somewhere like Monitor."
"Well, to honor the fine keeper of this establishment..."
"Aye, treasure... from me wilder, younger days."
"So ye're still trying ta leave this island?"
"A rotten egg!" ~"Why art thou shoving such a thing at me?"
"Take that thing out of here!" ~"My patrons are trying to eat!"
"A blue aig?" ~"
"Then ye be out of luck, matey."
"Anyone can see 'tis a pinecone..." ~"What's thy question?"
"Pinecones come from the northern woods." ~"Purty things, ain't they? I collect 'em and give 'em to sweet gals like Bucia at the Canton."
"Can't git 'em now." ~"Ain't gonna sail my ship no more, and a ship is the only way past Gorlab Swamp."
"Is it the work of magic? Do they know who is responsible?"
"Wonderful! I hope that this means that the storms will end soon..."
"I had hoped that the storms would end soon, before they cause us to close..."
"Well, I still think 'tis the work of them mages! No good comes of controlling that type of power, I'll tell thee..."
"Aye, mother. And thou wilt tell all who will listen! Do not harass what few customers we do have..."
"Hast thou ever heard a boy so rude as to talk to his mother that way?"
"I am no boy, mother. For now, I'm the innkeeper here and I'll thank thee to remember that we have a mage staying here now."
"Now I've got no husband and a pair of old, smelly boots."
"Now I've got no husband, but I do have my slippers..."
"Here are thy boots then... And I thank thee for my slippers."
"He was a rather portly man, if I remember rightly. He had been here once before..."
"I cannot seem to recall what his name was. He was not the talkative sort, least not to me."
"Thou couldst ask Ensorcio, they talked quite a bit. Or... I know... Thou canst look in the registry! 'Tis on the bar."
"Thou hast not met the great Ensorcio yet? Count thy blessings!"
"Ensorcio is an exiled mage. Who doth know what he did? I am too afraid to ask..."
"'Tis why I didn't worry 'til morn... When I found everything in disarray and Angus gone."
"I waited a week or so before I sent word to Wilfred and Argus about their father not returning."
"Thou wilt not find our cooking fancy as in Moonshade. But 'tis hardy fare and thou wilt find the portions ample."
"I've done all the cooking here since Donal hired me, before I married Angus. I've had my share of compliments, if I do say so myself."
"I will sell thee some food when we are open!"
"Thou wilt like our selection, I'm certain."
"Please return when we are open!"
"The cost is 8 gold coins per person. Wouldst thou like a room for the night?"
"Room number 3 is available. I am sure thou wilt like it. Here is the key."
"The rooms are upstairs. If thou dost need anything, thou shouldst call."
"Thou wilt have to take thy chances outside."
"Some other time, then."
"So, thou art still alive!" ~"I had wondered when thy companion arrived in such a strange state."
"I never thought I would live to see mighty Moonshade humbled, but Shamino hath certainly managed it quite handily."
"The name is Flindo. I own a provisioning shop here in Moonshade and have many important connections here."
"The name is Flindo. I own a provisioning shop in Moonshade and have many important connections there."
"Returned again?"
"I understand now why Hawk did not wish to sail the open seas. I do not know how thou wilt leave this island... Unless the tales are true."
"I hope that thou dost like our fine city of Moonshade."
"If thou wouldst like to know about any place within the city, come to me."
"He now calls himself Shamino the Anarch."
"When Shamino the Anarch took over, he cast Filbercio out of the Palace and made him a beggar."
"That bag of wind! Calls himself a sailor... Ha!"
"So I went to the Pikemen..."
"Look for a young lad talking to a parrot. That will be him."
"Kane doth not have the sense of a cat!"
"Now there is one to avoid, if ever there was one!"
"Do not tell me that thou hast not heard that legend!"
"Well, years ago, there was experimenting aplenty amongst the mages. There were not nearly as many restrictions as there are now."
"And he was none too particular if it was a quick death or not. Anyway, soon his 'research' even upset the Council of Mages."
"Well, now, there are quite a number of them. And I only know a few... not being a mage."
"Only mages approved of by the Council of Mages may sell death spells. And the Council must be notified of all research and experiments."
"There. 'Tis all I can remember. If thou desirest to know more, thou shouldst speak to a mage."
"Mortegro is fine. A bit flighty at times, but all mages are if thou dost ask me."
"Mortegro's true specialty is speaking with the dead."
"Anyway, after that was found there, the mines were sealed. Until Filbercio became MageLord, that is."
"But, as of yet, none have proven themselves innocent... If thou takest my meaning."
"The MageLord must be an Adept, and rules all Moonshade."
"Although the MageLord's power is great, it is held in check by the other members of the Council of Mages."
"Ale is what Kane calls that parrot of his..."
"I made an appropriately large 'donation' to their coffers. But I did not expect them to waylay Hawk to rot in some jail cell!"
"I suppose that is what comes of not knowing the difference between Leopards, Bears and Wolves..."
"I paid them well enough! But I did not expect them to waylay Hawk to rot in some jail cell!"
"I suppose that is what comes of not knowing the difference between Leopards, Bears and Wolves..."
"I know what any non-Monitorian knows..."
"The Leopards are one of the three Commands of Monitor. They control the tower nearest Monitor itself."
"I have also heard that, like all cats, they are a sneaky, conniving lot."
"I know little about them..."
"I have also heard, from a Fawn merchant, that many Fawn citizens would rather face the goblins than the Bears."
"Not being from Monitor, I am afraid I am woefully uninformed..."
"I find it hard to believe that a man such as Hawk, with a ship such as the Arabella, would fear any storm -- magical or otherwise."
"I think Hawk's reluctance to sail lies more at the bottom of an empty mug and an empty coffer..."
"The Arabella is a fine ship... Good lines and fast-running before a stiff breeze."
"It occurred immediately after I arrived here..."
"I recall that one morning Mistress Devra was beside herself with worry because Angus was nowhere to be found."
"Mistress Devra is a sweet-natured lady. Too good-hearted to be an innkeeper sometimes."
"I had recently begun making the trips with my father when Donal hired her to do the cooking. That was before she married Angus."
"Poor woman, first Theron and then her husband..."
"Donal was Angus' father. He was a good, hard-working man."
"'Tis hard to think that Angus disappeared exactly like his grandfather did..."
"Why, Silverpate is the one who built this inn!"
"Anyhow, Silverpate disappeared when Donal was still a young man. Everyone thinks the treasure is still hidden here somewhere."
"Do not ask me! Silverpate was a pirate... Who knows what such a man would have hidden?"
"Thou shouldst ask Mistress Devra about that. All I know is that one day no one could find Silverpate, and he was never found."
"Donal took over the inn and nothing more untoward happened until Theron disappeared."
"Theron was a worker here. Mistress Devra took him in and gave him work and a place to stay. He was not very bright..."
"Angus was a big man. I cannot see how any harm could befall him without alerting the whole inn."
"I think perhaps he took a notion to leave and go adventuring. He had a strange sense of humor and a powerful temper..."
"Who knows? Mayhaps he became angry at Mistress Devra and walked away."
"Wilfred is Argus' younger brother..."
"After Argus left, Angus raised Wilfred very strictly. So Wilfred holds Argus in no great esteem."
"As thou dost well know, seeing that I did obtain thee an audience with the MageLord. Who else could have done such a thing?"
"And I shall obtain for thee an audience with the MageLord, have no fear! I am as good as my promise."
"In fact, this is what I shall do for thee! Since thou didst make it possible for Hawk to sail us here, I shall repay thee --"
"And thou mayest find that some of the mages are very reclusive and will not speak to thee without proper introduction."
"Oh, yes! Filbercio is quite a lady's man. And what woman would not jump at the opportunity to win the MageLord's favor?"
"Though I have heard that Frigidazzi is not always so cool. And I have been told that Filbercio hath not been... faithful... shall we say."
"Frigidazzi specializes in cold-related spells. She is a great beauty, but she is rather cold to everyone."
"Perhaps I should not say this, but I think Frigidazzi is using Filbercio to gain status within the ranks of the Adepts."
"Although I think it would be foolish to catch her eye as long as Filbercio doth have an interest in her... If thou knowest what I mean."
"Filbercio hath been trying to coerce Columna into a dalliance for some time. But she will have nothing to do with him."
"Stefano would do better practicing his magic... But he would rather be a skilled thief than a novice mage."
"I hate even to utter his name... It leaves a bitter taste in the mouth!"
"'Tis a good thing Petra escaped from his sickening clutches and has Rocco to protect her."
"Petra is the automaton at the Blue Boar. Torrissio created her."
"Rocco is the innkeeper at the Blue Boar."
"Julia is a Ranger at the Winery. She is a rather handsome woman. Very no-nonsense sort."
"I know nothing other than the fact that they are said to exist, and that they are supposedly fraught with peril."
"Perhaps if thou dost ask Fedabiblio, he could confirm it... Or even tell thee where they are."
"That is where all the novice mages are taught. Look for the youngsters in the street and thou wilt find it."
"His name is actually Erstam. But everyone here refers to him as the Mad Mage."
"He hath been very cheerful as of late..."
"There are those who believe that Erstam is Pothos' father. But Pothos will never talk about it, so I do not know."
"There are many places that thou wilt want to visit while thou art here."
"Thou mayest find lodgings at the Blue Boar. Thou shouldst see the Winery. And there's the artist's bazaar..."
"The Blue Boar is a tavern here. It provides food and lodging at a reasonable rate... for Moonshade."
"The Rangers have a magic winepress. It works without need of human assistance. I am sure that thou wilt find it interesting."
"What? Dost thou not trust my word?"
"Go about thy business, and the MageLord shall certainly summon thee when he is ready."
"I have good news for thee, my friend! As promised, I have arranged for thee to meet with MageLord Filbercio."
"In fact, he plans to hold a banquet in thine honor. I am certain thou wilt find his means of summoning thee... very unusual..."
"Go about thy business, and at the appropriate moment, the MageLord shall summon thee."
"I am working on securing that appointment for thee to meet with the MageLord, but these things take time..."
"Ask me again tomorrow. I promise thee that I can accomplish this thing, but not instantly, not immediately."
"I am not in trouble, am I?" ~"I did not do anything!"
"M'name's Kane. I be a sheepherder..."
"I knew one of them Mages could help me!" *"We be goin' home soon..." ~"After Edrin finds a ship to return on."
"I be searchin' for a Mage to help me find my brother what was lost in the storms, if thou pleasest."
"I am waitin' for passage to Moonshade, if thou pleasest."
"I knew one of them Mages could help me!" *"We be goin' home soon..." ~"After Edrin finds a ship to return on."
"M'name's Kane. I be searchin' for a Mage to help me find my brother what was lost in the storms, if thou pleasest."
"M'name's Kane. I be a sheepherder..." ~"I be waitin' for passage to Moonshade, if thou pleasest."
"I hope some of these powerful Mages will help me find him."
"Master Flindo is a merchant of some sort, I think." ~"He is not very nice."
"I am most glad to have Edrin back."
"I was frightened during that storm when Edrin disappeared. But it weren't nothing compared to that sea crossing in Hawk's ship."
"I am not looking forward to sailing again, I can tell thee."
"He is doing fine now that he's not a parrot any more. Though he says that he hath been having bad dreams of late. I do not blame him."
"I'll wager being a bird would give anyone nightmares..."
"I have not yet spoken with any of them Mages. I'll admit that they frighten me..."
"But I know that I have to do it sometime. They are mine only hope of finding Edrin again."
"I want to be alone."
"If thou hast the stomach to face great danger, then perhaps we can resume the quest for the lost gold."
"Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Selina. And I have heard that thou art in need of... finances, shall we say."
"I believe that I can be of help..."
"I have heard that thou art in need of... finances, shall we say."
"I believe that I can be of help..."
"It is so wonderful that a woman such as thyself hath come to our land!"
"There is so much that thou canst teach us."
"Thou dost look to be brave and trustworthy."
"I need thy protection."
"It seems we are fated to be together..."
"I'm glad thou art returned."
"Thou still hast much to teach us."
"I'm glad thou art returned."
"I would still be grateful for thy protection."
"We still have a long way to travel."
"This is the place!"
"We are very close!"
"We must follow the coast north, and then turn east."
"I will simply say that a little birdie told me that thou dost need desperately to sail to Moonshade."
"It is all so obvious, if one thinks about it just so..."
"But we agreed to be partners. From now on, thou and I are inseparable!"
"Not long ago, one of those strange storms took the lighthouse that was up the coast, north and east of here."
"In its place is a strange building, locked tight and reportedly filled with hideous monsters and great treasure!"
"He is not here, and shows no signs of keeping his word. Men!"
"Frankly, we would do best if we were to rid ourselves of Men entirely! What a sisterhood we should make..."
"I feel terrible, for this time I had given away mine heart, and now 'tis broken..."
"Dost thou pledge to go directly to the site of the gold this time?"
"If thou art willing to allow me to join thee, I can lead thee to treasure enough for both of us."
"I have the key and the instructions, but I am no match for what may lie ahead. Wilt thou join me in seeking the treasure?"
"I shall hold thee to thy word!"
"I knew that thou wouldst be interested!"
"This group is getting a little large for my tastes. I think I'll stay at the Inn for a while..."
"Here is the key I promised."
"But how shall I gain the gold, if thou dost not aid me?"
"In Monitor, women may be warriors... But at the cost of their femininity."
"In Fawn, women are valued for their beauty... At the cost of their independence and intelligence."
"And in Moonshade, women may be mages... But the true power lies in the hands of men."
"So, thou seest... Thou art brave, intelligent and beautiful. Thou art not one nor the other... Thou art all these things at once."
"Moonsilk stockings! Oh, how I have longed for a pair of my very own!"
"Marvelous! I knew that another woman would understand!"
"Moonsilk stockings! Oh, how I have longed for a pair of my very own!"
"Thou art wonderful! I will think of thee every time I wear them!"
"An engagement ring!"
"I should have realized that it was not thine. See how crude the tracery is, and how ill the stones fit?"
"It is clearly an unacceptable piece of inferior quality. It looks like it may have come from one of the lesser artisans in Moonshade."
"An engagement ring!"
"I suppose it would be too much to hope that it was for me..."
"See how crude the tracery is, and how ill the stones fit? It is clearly an unacceptable piece of inferior quality."
"It looks like it may have come from one of the lesser artisans in Moonshade."
"How cute! But dost thou not think it is a bit warm here for a fur cap?" "And... I don't know... But it seems a bit small for thee..."
"Perhaps thou wouldst show it to me later."
"Thou couldst ask a scholar or some such... Perhaps even a mage might be able to help. I don't know."
"Wilt thou take me to the treasure, or no?"
"Much better."
"Then I'm leaving!"
"Thou still goest the wrong way. I'm leaving!"
"Gloat if thou wilt! Even if thou slayest me here thou hast not truly defeated me!"
"Batlin! Guardian! I await thee in the Void!"
"Thou shalt not find me such easy prey, mighty Avatar!"
"When thou dost least expect it, thou shalt find me a worthy opponent!"
"I must retreat to the safety of the Sleeping Bull. Do not worry -- we shall meet again, Avatar!"
"I was a fool to join with thee, Avatar! Now I am to lose my life in this foolish quest."
"I am leaving -- do not try to stop me!"
"I am ready to aid thee. Thou couldst have chosen no better companion than myself!"
"Why dost thou trouble me now? Canst thou not see that I am very busy..."
"Well met, Avatar!"
"Hath vengeance been exacted upon Batlin for his evil deeds?"
"Marvelous! The world will be a better place!"
"Thou art truly worthy of thy Knighthood!"
"Thou art worthy of Knighthood!"
"Then I must continue to seek him."
"I am now without a cause to champion. I see that thou art without thy companions. If thou wishest, I will join thee."
"Together, none can stand in our way!"
"Very well. Perhaps I shall journey to Monitor and see what hath transpired there."
"Thou hast more than enough companions to protect thee!"
"Ah, I see that thou art a Knight of Monitor!"
"Although I do not know thee, I am certain that thou knowest me!"
"I do not recall having met thee before..."
"But I am certain that thou hast heard of me!"
"Art thou not honored? We meet again..."
"Join thee? Why, thou art incompetent as a battle leader -- I was nearly killed the last time I journeyed with thee!"
"Join thee now? When I was not good enough to continue with thee before? I think not!"
"One must have his pride, or be merely a worm..."
"But thou hast all of these other companions! Knight Wilfred is not one to join a crowd..."
"I can see that thou dost need a strong arm like myself. Since it is thy wish, I shall come with thee."
"What! Dost thou think me some strumpet, to be cast off at the first excuse? I do not agree to leave."
"Damn thee, Avatar!"
"Thou couldst not succeed without me!"
"What! Thou hast not heard of me?"
"Where hast thou been all thy life, the frozen north?"
"I am Wilfred, Knight of the Bear Command -- formerly of Sleeping Bull Inn."
"Well, if thou art so rude to ask..."
"Devra and Angus, proprietors of the inn, are my parents. I was born here."
"As thou canst see... I am a Knight of Monitor."
"I am currently seeking the murderer of my father."
"He disappeared some time ago, and is presumed dead. I have been seeking clues since I was notified..."
"Unlike my brother, Argus, who came running home to take over the inn."
"Why should I tell thee what I have learned? Thou mayest well be the murderer..."
"Retract thy words, or eat them! Thou art speaking about the Avatar!"
"Take the wind out of this egotistical dog's sails, Avatar!"
"Thou dost tread on dangerous ground with such accusations..."
"If thou art truly searching for my father's killer, then I will tell thee what I have learned."
"This odd party came asking about the Serpent ruins. The mage was unusually interested in anything to do with the Serpent people."
"And... After Batlin and his henchmen left Monitor, it was discovered that a valuable Serpent relic was stolen from Andral, the sculptor."
"There were three with him, so I was told."
"One was a pirate, by his looks, with an unearthly white eye."
"One was a dark-skinned fighter, very strong but seemingly lacking in wit."
"And the other, as I have said, was a tall hooded man -- No one recalls hearing him speak at all. So perhaps he is mute."
"Though Andral is a Pikeman, I still cannot understand the interest he places in pieces of stone..."
"Thou shouldst say cowardly cur, instead!"
"There are many who say that Argus took bribes to look aside while illegal activities took place."
"When Argus heard Flessar repeating these things, Argus called him into a selfish duel and killed him!"
"Flessar was a Knight of the Leopard Command. He was Templar's friend."
"He was also not nearly as skilled as my... brother, being many years Argus' junior."
"Templar is a Knight of the Bear Command, and my friend."
"Alas, Templar's skill could not help young Flessar on the dueling field."
"Argus is... or was... a member of the Wolf Command."
"It doth not take much more than a glance at their commander to see what a worthless Command they are."
"Brendann's womanizing speaks well enough for the character of the rank and file of his troops."
"And that includes Argus."
"One of the Temple guards is sympathetic to our Cause. He hath given me this key, which will lead thee into the hidden parts of the Temple."
"'Tis always an honor to serve the Pikemen." *"I am Alyssand, daughter of Delin. I am a weaver by trade."
"I am Alyssand, daughter of Delin. I am a weaver by trade." *"How might I be of assistance?"
"We need thee. The Cause needs thee!"
"I help father with the shop when he is... indisposed. What dost thou wish to purchase?"
"I will gladly sell to thee if thou wilt come to my father's shop when we are open for business."
"Fawn, the city of Beauty. Fawn, the city that lost Love in vanity and the pursuit of power."
"But there is fresh hope in Fawn, for Lady Yelinda doth rule for herself now. It is a new dawning for Beauty and Love."
"The people of Fawn are content to let the world end... As long as it doth not mar their Beautiful view of the dying embers!"
"With the aid of Lady Yelinda, those ways shall be restored to Fawn. These are such glorious times..."
"Now the two are sundered, and Fawn cares for no one but herself."
"The storms stripped us of our ships, one by one."
"Thou hast not seen the storms hit, and watched as something vanished before thy very eyes?"
"The Goblins have grown bold of late. They have often come to hurl themselves upon our gate. Thankfully, we have held fast so far."
"Thankfully, Leon and his followers have been allowed to enter the city once again. I shall not fear for their safety now."
"What shall we speak of, then?"
"Now that I have explained it, thy duty must be evident. Wilt thou join us in this Cause?"
"Thy courage doth delight the soul of a weary rebel like myself."
"I regret that thou wilt not aid the Cause. Nevertheless, we will not be turned from our quest to save this society."
"If events should change thy mind, contact me."
"One of the Temple guards is sympathetic to our Cause. He hath given me this key, which will lead thee into the hidden parts of the Temple."
"Be ready at any time, for one doth not know when the time to act shall arrive."
"We once tried to enter the Temple during the night, while Kylista was with one of her lovers... but the guards foiled our attempt."
"Nevertheless -- look everywhere, talk to everyone, see if thou canst find the clue that hath eluded us!"
"A person like thyself, brave and adventurous, could be useful in times like these..."
"Wouldst thou be willing to aid us in liberating this city from false traditions and evil schemes?"
"I regret that thou wilt not aid the Cause. Nevertheless, we will not be turned from our quest to save this society."
"If events should change thy mind, contact me."
"Thy thinking is more advanced than I had hoped! But surely, thou hast questions...?"
"If thou wilt only let me explain the concepts, I am certain that thou wilt join our Cause."
"Do not toy with mine expectations -- hast thou reconsidered?"
"Wouldst thou aid us in liberating this city from false traditions and evil schemes?"
"If events should change thy mind, contact me."
"I knew that thou wouldst perceive the ethicality of this Cause, given time. If thou hast questions, I shall be glad to answer them."
"I beg thee, let me explain the concepts which propel the Cause. When thou dost understand, thou wilt surely join us..."
"Continue to pry secrets from the townsfolk -- sometimes, a stranger can learn more than an old friend."
"Go places thou art not wanted, and look for the hidden things. Surely, thou wilt find a clue."
"Thou must find the evidence that hath eluded us, so that Fawn can be freed!"
"I have heard that thy friend hath been taken prisoner, to be placed on trial before the Oracle."
"I have no faith in the truth of the Oracle, but perhaps an opportunity shall present itself to advance the Cause."
"Thou shouldst submit thyself to the trial, for the time being. That is mine advice."
"Why dost thou delay? Take the key that I gave thee, and enter the hidden places within the Temple."
"Perhaps thou canst free thy companion -- or unearth the secret of the Oracle!"
"Return to the Temple! The secret room which thou hast seen must have some influence over the Oracle."
"Now let the trial resume! Kylista and her knaves shall regret the day they were born..."
"Thou must find a way to make the thing denounce Kylista and the Great Captains, and overthrow this evil system!"
"Yet I believe that we somehow missed the last chance to expose Kylista and her minions for the hypocrites they truly are!"
"Thy part is done. Go thy way, continue thy quest -- we of the Cause shall struggle on without thee."
"If there is anything I can ever do for thee, return to Fawn, and I shall aid thee."
"Surely, thou wouldst not take advantage of a girl for a few hasty words?"
"According to legend, the Oracle was brought by our ancestors from Sosaria, our homeland. It now stands in the Temple of Beauty."
"Our traditions teach us that the statue is an infallible guide to Truth and Beauty."
"But we suspect that the legends are false."
"Most of the young people of the town belong to the Cause -- but they are not willing to say so publicly, for fear of exile."
"I am also pleased to say that Leon supports us, as do the other Fellowship members."
"The Oracle actually speaks -- all of us have heard it. It speaks in reply to the Priestess of Beauty."
"The Statue of Beauty only speaks at certain times, such as during the spring festivals or when the city needs special guidance."
"The Oracle is supposed to speak only the Truth, yet it too often parrots the words of the Priestess and the Great Captains."
"We do not believe that truth only serves those in power... we think that someone hath corrupted the Oracle!"
"Kylista is the worst example of this pernicious doctrine of Beauty..."
"Kylista is lustful and greedy, but she is also cunning. She is very dangerous to us."
"According to all of our traditions, only women are capable of ruling in Fawn -- for only women are capable of True Beauty."
"The highest station which a male can hope for is to serve as one of the Great Captains. These men serve as Lady Yelinda's advisors."
"Yet they do much more than merely advise. There are three of them -- Garth, Joth and Voldin."
"Because he is the youngest of the Captains, we had hoped to find a way to persuade Garth to support our Cause."
"I do not trust him..."
"The sailors trust and respect Joth. In mine heart, I cannot believe he is part of any conspiracy to control the Oracle."
"We thought of asking Joth to aid us, but he hath not been the same since the storms."
"He doth live in his memories and stare out to sea. I think he cannot stop yearning to return to sea long enough to be of much help."
"Voldin is the one who truly controls the Great Captains. I think he would make himself ruler of Fawn, if he could find a way."
"Voldin is a cruel man who secretly despises women. If there is an evil scheme, then Voldin must be the mastermind."
"That worm hath been following thee? Then he doth suspect that thou art allied with the Cause..."
"Watch thy step, lest thou be exiled like the Fellowship folks. Without thee to help us, our Cause would be lost."
"Thou hast not heard Leon speak? Oh, thou shouldst!"
"He doth tell of something wonderful, wherein all people are equal and capable of independent thought. Something called The Fellowship."
"Thou canst find him at the camp outside the city gates."
"Imagine if women were not coddled or thought of as inferior! What would the world be like if we all listened to our Inner Voice?"
"Leon's companions are the sailors that brought him here. Their names are Scots, Ruggs and Kalen."
"Scots is not precisely a sailor, I suppose. He is actually a cartographer."
"He is most often with his pens and ink, drawing intricate little lines..."
"Ruggs is a sailor, for sure. Although he seems to take well to gardening now that he's on shore."
"Thou canst not mistake which of the three is Ruggs. His face is hideous to behold, though he speaks fair enough."
"Of the three of Leon's companions, I know the least about Kalen, and I have no desire to learn more."
"He always seems to be hovering about, staring at me. He never seems to be doing anything around the camp."
"She, too, is a prisoner of Beauty! Yelinda must not strain herself, lest she mar her perfect appearance with any sign of weariness."
"The Great Captains therefore have usurped many of her duties, on the pretext of sparing Yelinda from tedium."
"I do not think the Lady to be the mindless, spineless creature which some others do. I think she is a victim of this system."
"Lady Yelinda is the ruler of Fawn. Her word is law... Usually delivered by her little shadow, Zulith."
"Zulith's official title is Chancellor. But he is little more than a glorified messenger."
"I had not expected a stranger to know of my tiny industry. I weave the nets and sew in my father's shop."
"It assists me in mine attempts to keep a watchful eye on my father... He hath not been right since my mother, Elissia, died."
"I have few customers, but perhaps people are beginning to take an interest."
"Apparently one of the mages hath taken a liking to them. They are the only ones who could afford such luxuries now."
"Thou art a lucky woman to possess such a fine pair of stockings!"
"I knew that such fine work was possible. But I had never actually seen the stockings they sell in Moonshade."
"It doth cause me to wonder why anyone in the city of Mages would buy the rough stockings I make, when they could purchase ones so soft."
"Thou wilt make some woman happy with so fine a pair of stockings!"
"I knew that such fine work was possible. But I had never actually seen the stockings they sell in Moonshade."
"It doth cause me to wonder why anyone in the city of Mages would buy the rough stockings I make when they could purchase ones so soft."
"I have heard of the stockings they sell in Moonshade. So I know that such fine work is possible."
"That is it, indeed. I thank thee for telling me... But thou mayest keep it if thou wishest."
"I thank thee for telling me that thou hast seen it... But if thou dost have it, thou mayest keep it."
"If thou wouldst wish the honest truth, I do not think that my beloved Keth will ever come back from wherever that storm took him."
"Therefore, this ring hath only melancholy memories for me. This jewelry hath become bitter to me."
"I assume that the gauntlets are thine... They are clearly meant for someone more adventurous than a mere weaver."
"Wouldst thou like to have them back?"
"Then thou shalt have them. Here!"
"If thou dost change thy mind, let me know. I have no use for them, and know of no one else who would."
"I am glad that I was able to give thee thy gauntlets. I had no use for them, and I am sure that thou didst miss their protection."
"Keth and I were to marry, but it was not fated to be."
"But then the storms came, and ships began disappearing. And eventually it was Keth's ship that never came back."
"I cannot understand why Monitorians prefer their women scarred."
"Forgive me... I am forgetting myself. I am... ah..."
"I am Delin, Fawn's provisioner. How may I serve thee, lady Pikeman?"
"I do not recall seeing thy face among the Fawn Tower garrison. Have I met thee? I regret I cannot remember..."
"I am Delin, Fawn's provisioner. Forgive me if thou dost already know me..."
"How may I serve thee, noble Pikeman?"
"Ah... art thou one of my daughter's friends? I cannot seem to recall thee..."
"I am Delin, Fawn's provisioner. Is there something I can do for thee?"
"I am Delin, provisioner of Fawn. In case we have not been introduced."
"I have not had a supply wagon bring arms or furs in a score of days. 'Tis the storms!"
"Such frail things would be quickly ruined by the cold and wet here in Fawn... Just like my poor Elissia..."
"Father, thou WILT stay indoors when those storms come through town!"
"Ah... I suppose I must if thou sayest so, my dear."
"Of course. Um, what was it we were discussing...?"
"Thou dost need me, father. Thy business is much too complex for thee to run by thyself!"
"Ah, er... I can do fine without thee, my dear."
"Father, that is my business!"
"Er... I am sorry, daughter."
"Elissia... Dear, sweet Elissia..."
"Now, thou didst ask about Alyssand's ring... I would call her and ask her to show it to thee, but Alyssand lost her ring not long ago."
"Why, it certainly doth look like it... Alyssand will be so happy!"
"I went to open my shop the next morning and there was a bundle of food in place of the Filari Alyssand had put there the night before."
"Thou must be a stranger..."
"Filari are Fawn's currency... A small silver disk with a colored gem in the center."
"Yes... yes. Those are Filari."
"That is as much as the storm took from me..."
"I would accept thy money if thou dost wish to purchase something."
"Sometimes 'tis FLASH!, and something thou wert standing across from is gone."
"But sometimes 'tis FLASH!, and something thou wert watching is a big, orange pumpkin."
"I like the last one best... 'Tis fun to guess what will be there after the flash."
"'Tis such an incredible sight. Ho ho hee!"
"Why wouldst thou want to talk about them? The storms are much more fun..."
"Oh, all right! Don't be testy!"
"Nothing is safe... Not even life. I lost my dear Elissia after childbirth..."
"Other than her smile."
"Our friend Iolo shares thy grief, milord. His wife is lost somewhere in these lands."
"For thy sake, I hope that she doth live, stranger Iolo."
"If Gwenno were lost from me forever, perhaps I too would be a little confused."
"Condolences to thee, Delin, and apologies if we have been unfeeling."
"They say that I shall feel better soon..."
"But I don't believe it."
"His name was, ah... Seth, I believe. Good healer, but he had a nasty temper." *"I am certain that the Goblins found him a bitter meal. Ha!"
"Delphynia is a fine horticulturist, to be sure. But she hath had little or no training as a healer."
"And it doth not seem right having a woman as a healer. Women should concern themselves with the delights of life, not the sorrows."
"But then thou knowest all about Goblin treachery, being a Pikeman and all."
"...Or his stewpot."
"Just as he stole my little Freli..."
"Thou dost not work for the Magister, dost thou?"
"Good! Because the Magister hath no call to spy on me."
"I have had no contact with Freli since he was taken away. No mortal can win in a struggle against wizards..."
"Bats? What bats?"
"No need to shout. I'm not deaf."
"Batlin... ah, I remember he came here asking about some sort of rock sculpture or something. Black rock..."
"I told him I am a simple merchant. I do not carry such luxuries. I directed him to Monitor. There is a sculptor there."
"And people accuse me of being forgetful! Thou art a Knight, and doth ask me about Monitor?"
"A letter from Freli! Oh, what joy!"
"Let me have it! Alyssand must hear of this."
"I am here, father! Tell me how Freli fares. Hath he become a Mage?"
"A moment, a moment... It will take me a moment. His writing is terrible!"
"Thou art having fun with me, stranger! I see no letter."
"Leave! I have no wish to be seen with thee! Thou dost consort with criminals and blasphemers."
"I am Delphynia, horticulturist and healer. State thy business or be on thy way. I do not traffic with oafs and knaves."
"I am Delphynia, horticulturist and healer. Welcome, noble Pikeman. Thy presence honors me."
"'Tis always a pleasure to see thee, Avatar. How may I be of service to thee?"
"Dost thou wish healing?"
"I hate to say this, but I am relieved to hear that!"
"My sole hope is now that the conspiracy of Kylista and Voldin hath been exposed the curse which lies upon this land might be raised."
"Can a City built upon the concept of Pure Beauty remain cursed? I hope not..."
"The other... as thou knowest, was Ruggs."
"The other... He was a thief who wore a face none could love. He stole mine heart away!"
"But now I am so confused... 'Twas Kylista who told us that The Fellowship was false, but now she doth stand accused of heresy..."
"And The Fellowship is again openly admitted within the city! I know not what to think."
"What dost thou wish to purchase?"
"Delin is Fawn's dry goods dealer, poor man. I wished Batlin luck in discussing anything with him."
"Hast thou not heard? Lady Yelinda doth look to the young woman as her chief advisor!"
"Alyssand hath never been so busy, nor so burdened with cares. She doth work to exhaustion, yet I think she is happy."
"I cannot tell thee very much about it. I fear that I only glanced at it... I would know it if I saw it again, though."
"Lady Yelinda, honor to her, is the ruler of Fawn. She is the most beautiful woman in the city, the very embodiment of Beauty."
"Thou sayest it is not thine? Hmmm... Then thou wilt have to enquire in Moonshade to find who it belongs to."
"Thou couldst enquire in Moonshade, to see if any of the Mages are missing any equipment. I am sorry I cannot be of any more help to thee."
"The only place that such a rock could have come from, that I know of, is somewhere beyond Moonshade."
"A grayish rock? Light in weight for its mass?"
"What a putrid smell!"
"Remove that immediately!"
"A blue egg? I have never heard of a blue egg."
"I am sorry I cannot be of more help."
"I am sure that it is magical, if it glows and is cool enough to hold. But I have never heard of it before."
"I am sorry I cannot be of more help."
"A letter from Ruggs? Oh, I must see it!"
"I am adrift! I am torn to my very soul and I know not what to do. Thou must help me."
"Wilt thou carry a letter back to Ruggs for me?"
"There is no one else that I can trust such a secret to." *"If there be a way, some day I will go to him."
"Perhaps it is best this way... I know not how to look upon his face and not wonder if there is some evil lurking there."
"Thou dost lie! I see no letter!"
"Why, thou art the confidant of the accused blasphemer! I cannot be seen speaking with thee..."
"Ah, a sweet savior! No fairer face hath a warrior worn."
"Welcome to Fawn, noble Pikeman. We are honored by thy presence." *"I am Great Captain Garth. Call me Garth."
"I am Great Captain Garth, but thou canst call me Garth."
"As thou canst see, Fawn is built upon the water. We are... or were... fishermen by trade."
"That is how we fed our people, and how we traded with the other towns."
"But we are a hardy lot." ~"We will weather these foul storms and rebuild what hath been destroyed."
"Perhaps I shall speak with Lady Yelinda again. Surely, she doth need mine advice if this town is to be saved..."
"Lady Yelinda hath charged me with the task of finding a way to sustain the people until the storms pass."
"We have lost most of our men to the sea and storms." ~"We do not know if they were drowned or transformed."
"May Beauty lay their souls to rest..."
"Now that I have seen thee, I think they are all wrong." ~"Thou art the most wondrous beauty I have seen."
"A freak change of wind cast his ship aground and he was trapped in the rigging."
"The healers say his back will never be the same again. He can never go back to sea."
"I know no more than that. I must concern myself with trying to provide Fawn with food."
"Pomdirgun is far more cunning than normal goblins. He hath attacked Fawn without respite for nearly a year now."
"His attacks have grown more daring of late."
"Without Pomdirgun leading them, the goblins would never have had the nerve to take the Pikeman tower."
"And he was responsible for the death of Seth, Fawn's healer."
"Delphynia is all we have now."
"Delphynia is a horticulturist." ~"Her knowledge of herbs made her the only logical choice as healer when Seth was killed."
"She doth seem happier of late, since the Lady did allow the Fellowship scum to return to the city."
"How can she abide that fellow Ruggs? He is so confounded ugly..."
"Welcome ta Fawn. I am Great Captain Joth. Thou canst call me Joth." *"'Tis always a pleasure ta meet a Pikeman."
"Good ta see thee again."
"Seth, the healer, patched me up right enough, but that were the end of me sea-goin' days."
"Life's not been the same for me since. I do miss the sea!"
"Never dreamed a crusty old salt like meself would end my days on the Great Captain's Council."
"An' there be nobody brave enough to even sail the rowboats! Not in these storms..."
"An' what's worse, Lady Yelinda tells me that I'm ta be in charge of the restorations!"
"Restorations she calls it! Like there was something ta restore! But drawn the reports and plans, I have. As ordered."
"Thou dost dare to confront me? Thou, that didst bring the blasphemer to Lady Yelinda!"
"Another of Monitor's female Pikemen, I see. Odd that they encourage women to disfigure themselves." *"I am Great Captain Voldin."
"Welcome, good Pikeman. Thy presence honors us." *"I am Great Captain Voldin."
"It is a pleasure to meet thee. I am Great Captain Voldin." *"Fawn is in sore need of more men to help hold the Goblins at bay."
"The Oracle hath always been a fraud! Dost thou not comprehend?"
"Even in our ancient homeland, the Statue of Beauty was controlled by the Great Captains. It said what we told it to."
"Thou hast destroyed a great tradition, foreigner! It was glorious, while it lasted..."
"Thou wouldst not understand..."
"The females of our race are exceedingly willful, yet they lack common sense. Without men to dominate them, they would ruin everything."
"She was merely our pawn -- a pretty thing, clever in a limited way, but always our tool."
"Close thy trap, Voldin, or I'll scratch thine eyes out!"
"Such a clever threat, girl! Dost thou not realize that thou dost live at my pleasure?"
"Fear not -- so long as the nights remain cold, I shall have a use for thee..."
"Surely, thou dost not think that Leon the Preacher and Alyssand the Weaver have won? They don't have the strength to govern."
"Give it time. Perhaps three moons. And then the people will clamor for the old ways, and remember Voldin in his jail cell."
"Then I shall rule as I always deserved, as King of Fawn!"
"The Oracle is an instrument of the heavens. Its words are divine revelations to those who follow Beauty's truth."
"Thou hast not heard a revelation from the Oracle yet?"
"Then thou knowest that these are words meant to enlighten and guide our lives to Beauty."
"Then thou art destined for a dismal life, my friend. For the world is what thou makest of it. Thou canst acquire only what thou takest."
"Of course not! Thou art a man of the world. Thou knowest that thou canst acquire only what thou takest."
"Lady Yelinda is the most beautiful woman in the city. She rules Fawn with the aid of the Chancellor and the Great Captain's Council."
"I fear, however, that she hath fallen under the spell of one of those infidels! Ruggs, I think his name is."
"I should have known that thou wert trouble! Askin' all those questions..."
"I shall not speak to thee until the Oracle hath ruled!"
"Then thou shouldst be on thy way. 'Tis not a fit place for such a beautiful lady as thyself."
"Returned so soon? How may I help thee now?"
"Dost thou desire a stiff drink, a warm meal, or a room where thou canst rest?"
"But since those cursed storms destroyed the fleet, there hath been precious little business."
"Products of evil, I tell ya! We be folks as live off the bounty of the sea. But these storms do not like nothin' on the water!"
"Used ta rent my sleepin' rooms regularly ta strangers that came through. But we've had only a few visitors since the storms began."
"The cost for a room is 12 filari per person. Dost thou want one?"
"Here is thy key."
"Thy room be upstairs."
"Thou dost not have enough filari! If thou canst not pay, then I do not rent ye a room!"
"Some other time, then."
"What be thou interested in?"
"Who dost thou wish ta know about -- townsfolk or strangers?"
"Whom dost thou wish ta know about?"
"These cursed wizard-storms have destroyed all of our ships. Olon is the only sailor left alive in the city."
"Used to be a mate on one of the fishin' ships..."
"'til it sank."
"Aside from me, there be only old Delin the Provisioner, and he be half-crazy."
"Delin hath not been quite right since his wife died, and the Magister came to take away his infant child."
"His daughter, Alyssand, looks after him these days. She doth make certain that he doth not wander away."
"Thou dost not know of the Magister? The Mage who comes in the night and steals our children away?"
"The Mages of Moonshade claim that it would be dangerous for magically-gifted children to grow up without proper training."
"I do not like it, but there is not much mortals can do against a City of Mages..."
"Last one we had was killed by the Goblins a few months ago. Closest thing we have now is the herbalist, Delphynia."
"Little slip of a woman. She's usually at her greenhouse or at the healer's hall."
"But I say that 'tis no duty for a woman. I know thou wouldst agree with me, mate."
"She is a changed woman, I think. Hast thou visited her in her cell?"
"Kylista is the Priestess of Beauty. Ta her falls the duty of keeping Fawn on the path of Beauty through these dark days."
"An' that be a large job for such slender shoulders, make no mistake!"
"Well now, there be plenty of those here. Who dost thou wish ta know about?"
"Lady Yelinda be the ruler here in Fawn. She be Fawn's living symbol of Beauty."
"She be a wise lady. Always concerned with what the people think -- Always listens ta any advice offered."
"I hate to speak ill of anyone, but for Zulith I shall make an exception."
"Jorvin be the Commander of the Fawn Guards. He is a fine, strong lad. And I think that he is sweet on the Lady."
"Aye! An' the Lady be sweet on him, too!"
"Thou shouldst not speak of the Lady so!"
"As for old Voldin, I think he is not greatly missed."
"Voldin doth scheme endlessly in his cell, but what can come of it?"
"To ease the burdens which Lady Yelinda must carry, the Great Captains assist her in ruling the city."
"Voldin be the eldest of the three Great Captains. They say he's a wise man, but I do not much care for him."
"Then there's Joth, an old sea-farin' man and a good customer of mine. But since he was hurt in the storms, he hath been a bit gruff."
"Captain Garth is the youngest of Lady Yelinda's advisors. He is always trailing some lady's skirts, that puppy!"
"Who wouldst thou care to hear about?"
"They were the crew of that ship that sailed from the other side of the world -- said something about Serpent Pillars in the ocean."
"Brunt, Ruggs, Deadeye, Kalen... I found them congenial enough. Excepting Kalen... he enjoyed arguing with my customers."
"The Lady hath admitted them back into the city, thou dost know... They have not made trouble yet, but I'm keeping an eye on them."
"But when the sailors began spouting that Fellowship nonsense, Kylista did right, orderin' their contagion outside the city walls."
"Mere foolishness. Everyone knows that Beauty is what is important."
"After all these centuries, we have no intention of changing our sacred beliefs now..."
"He arrived in the most unnatural way! The sailors had erected a great pillar made outa some blackish rock..."
"Then in the night -- BLAM! Lightning, explosions! The pillar is disintegrated. And this mage is standing there."
"Said his name was Batlin. Came to town askin' about the Daemon artifacts hereabouts. Bothering poor Delin..."
"Told him ta go talk ta others of his ilk, not badger the honest folk."
"Stay away from 'em myself. But thou canst not miss 'em..."
"Have snakes carved all over 'em. Left behind by the ancient inhabitants of this land. Horrible Daemonic folk."
"Legend claims that the Lady keeps a Daemon shrine locked away in a secret room of her palace. Hard to believe, eh?"
"Came on the ship. Said The Fellowship had sent them here to study our way of life -- make maps, collect histories, and so forth."
"Scots is the geographer. Spends all his time working on his new map of the continent."
"Then there was the culturist -- her name was, uh..."
"Gwenno..."
"Askin' about folk tales. Bought the boys a round or two ta loosen their tongues. Her favorites were the tales of the Gwani."
"Never seen 'em. Never wanted to."
"Covered in fur, like an animal. Hear they're worse than Goblins... even eat their own kind!"
"Olon might be able to tell ya more."
"I know little about the wilderness areas hereabouts. I be a town man, meself."
"But I can tell thee about the other towns, if thou wouldst like."
"Oh, I wandered about a bit as a lad, but I never went too far. Never wanted ta lose myself..."
"Hear the woods are overrun by Goblins, these days."
"Well now, like I said before, I have never visited the other towns. But I have heard tell of them."
"'Tis the town of wizards on an island east of here..."
"Sleeping Bull is not exactly a town, but it doth lie on the road ta Monitor and is where thou mayest hire passage to Moonshade."
"It looks most comely on thee. Thou must be the adventurous sort..."
"Thou dost look a bit like a bold pirate with that jaunty mark."
"Arrogant people down there. Always wantin' ta beat thee. They have a big walled city south of here. Monitor is where the Pikemen are from."
"Larcenous bunch of armoured scum! They'll protect the roads for thee... if thou dost give them all thy money!"
"The lot hereabouts weren't much good. The Goblins killed 'em."
"They've become bolder here of late. That's why Fawn closes her gates at night now."
"Aye, we have something here that'll fill thy belly."
"If thou dost want ta wet thy whistle, I can sell thee a fine drink -- Fawnish Ale. 'Tis a strong refreshment, though..."
"If thou dost think of anything, let me know!"
"What sort of items art thou inquiring about?"
"That looks like a pinecone to me!"
"Sounds like a pinecone to me!"
"They come from big trees, but not like those hereabouts. Thou couldst ask Olon about it, he hath travelled quite a bit."
"Oh... They are fine things, not what thou wouldst find among the women of fisher-folk."
"These are fine things, not what thou wouldst find among the women of fisher-folk."
"Perhaps Alyssand could help thee. She is a good hand at weaving the stockings that are found hereabouts."
"Aye! That be the truth! No woman would have him!"
"Seek thou Alyssand. She makes stockings. She might be able to help thee."
"We have none so fancy here -- Only the ones that Alyssand makes."
"Why art thou carrying a dead person with thee? Was it someone kin to thee?"
"Thou didst not know? That urn holds the ashes of one of Monitor's dead warriors."
"I am sure they would appreciate its return..."
"Doth not look like anything I ever heard of."
"Doth not sound like anything I ever heard of."
"But perhaps Delphynia could help thee. She uses all manner of fancy equipment to prepare her herbs for healing and such."
"What a strange rock... Not from around here. Wouldn't be much good for building or for ballast."
"Go thou and ask Delphynia, though. She collects odd things that she calls reagents. Perhaps she might know what that is."
"I have never heard of such a rock. Who doth care about rocks?"
"Why, that looks exactly like the engagement ring that Keth gave Alyssand!"
"What dost thou think, Olon?"
"Aye, sure as ships sail. That be Alyssand's ring all right. Keth showed it to me enough times, I should know."
"Can't say without seeing it, but it might be the ring that one of our young ladies did lose."
"Bring it here, and I can tell thee for certain."
"Nice cap. A bit small, though. Not something a fisherman would wear... It would blow off the ship."
"Ask thou Delin if he hath seen a cap like this. He is the provisioner. He should know."
"Doth not sound like something a fisherman would wear..."
"Ask thou Delin if he hath heard of such a cap. He is the provisioner. He should know."
"I cannot recall having seen any of the women in town with slippers like these."
"Thou mightest check with Delin to see if he remembers who purchased these."
"I cannot recall any of the women wearing slippers like thou hast described."
"Perhaps Fawn's luck shall change after all!"
"Thou shouldst leave it in the Temple, for it belongs within the Place of Beauty."
"Thou shouldst take it to her quickly!"
"Too bad thou dost not have it with thee. But that is Fawn's luck nowadays!"
"It sounds like Priestess Kylista's ceremonial breastplate."
"If it is, then it belongs in the Temple. Perhaps thou shouldst leave it before the Oracle."
"Thou shouldst as least tell her that thou hast seen it -- it will cheer her."
"A rotten egg! How it smells! Leave here with that!"
"I have never heard of a blue egg."
"Ask Delphynia. She doth know all manner of strange things."
"Strange lookin' brush..."
"Come ta think of it, it looks like something that Jorvin was talking about, when our healer was killed. Thou shouldst show it to him."
"Hmmm... sounds malformed. No one in the City of Beauty would use such a brush."
"I know that bottle! That there is Moonshade wine."
"I do not have much demand for it around here, though. The sailors don't care much for such a weak vintage -- Fawn folk prefer Fawn ale!"
"Doth not sound like Fawn ale... Maybe that weak vintage from Moonshade. I do not sell it here -- Fawn folk prefer Fawn ale!"
"Why, those are Filari! Those are the coins of Fawn..."
"Perhaps thou shouldst ask Delin. He is the Provisioner here in town."
"'Tis the skull of some beast, obviously. Perhaps it is a Goblin skull -- I would be glad of that."
"Ask Jorvin if it is a Goblin skull. If it is, I might buy it from thee to hang above the door!"
"What manner of beast art thou, to carry such things with thee?!"
"Thou art as bad as those horrible wizards from Moonshade! No respect for life!"
"Sounds like the work of those horrible wizards from Moonshade! No respect for life!"
"Talk with Jorvin. He of any here in Fawn would know where such armour hails from."
"Seek Jorvin's aid. He is well trained with the devices of battle. I shall content myself with a mug and broom..."
"Well... uh... these are made right here, by young Alyssand."
"These are stockings thou mayest find our fisher women wearing. They are made right here, by young Alyssand."
"What dost thou take me for!"
"Seek another woman to help thee... Alyssand, perhaps. She makes stockings."
"If it is stockings thou seekest..."
"Alyssand weaves them right here in Fawn."
"No one outside of our town cares for it at all."
"Thou dost speak in error, friend. Remember, thou hast a customer in Monitor..."
"Aye. The innkeeper in Monitor doth order Fawnish ale from time to time, but I know not for whom."
"Wouldst thou like more Fawnish ale?"
"Another time, then..."
"I wish I could have been of more help to thee..."
"Why, we've drifted completely off the subject! What were we talking about...?"
"I understand -- everyone is short of coins these days..."
"Greetings, visitors! Thanks to the beautiful songs of the bard Iolo, thou hast found favor in our good city."
"The Lady would welcome thee formally to Fawn. Thou mayest attend her within her throne room at the palace, after noon."
"Be certain to bring that fellow Iolo with thee -- the Lady doth wish to confer an honor upon him."
"I am honored to meet thee. I have always valued the brave Pikemen that guard our roads."
"Then thou must be brave indeed! Monitor hath never before welcomed outsiders into the ranks of the Pikemen." *"I am honored to meet thee."
"I am honored to meet thee. I have always valued the brave Pikemen that guard our roads."
"Then thou must be brave indeed! Monitor hath never before welcomed outsiders into the ranks of the Pikemen." *"I am honored to meet thee."
"Thou canst most often find Zulith in the palace, acting as Lady Yelinda's secretary."
"The Temple is located beyond the palace, on the waterfront. 'Tis dedicated to Beauty, as is all of Fawn."
"We had despaired of falling to their newfound unity. But we have hope again now that the tower hath been retaken."
"Anyone knows that goblins devour people! Why soon before the storms began, they abducted the healer who was gathering herbs."
"Now, do not speak of Leon's followers in such a manner! We of Fawn have learned tolerance, thanks to the Lady's example."
"The revelations assure us that the heavens have not totally turned their eyes from Fawn."
"If thou dost visit the Temple whilst thou art here, I am sure that thou wilt be able to hear for thyself."
"I saw several like this in empty goblin campsites when we tried to route the goblins from this area."
"It sounds like thou art describing a hairbrush used by the goblins. It is fashioned out of human bone..."
"I saw several in empty goblin campsites when we tried to route the goblins from this area."
"Thou canst tell Jendon that this is no goblin skull. He will have to find something else to hang above his door."
"'Tis a bear's skull. Bears are common in this area and to the south of here as well."
"No, Jendon would not know what this is. Jendon is a city man and hath never been hunting with the guards."
"'Tis a bear's skull. Bears are common in this area and to the south of here as well."
"Jendon was right to send thee to me. I doubt that anyone else in Fawn takes much notice of such things..."
"I am surprised that thou hast not realized by now... One of thy Pikeman companions will be looking for this."
"Some Pikeman will be looking for this."
"Look at any Pikeman thou dost meet. Thou wilt most likely see another shield precisely like the one thou hast described."
"I beg thee to depart..."
"One of Monitor's famed Pikemen! I am Kylista, Priestess of Beauty."
"I have always thought it daring of Monitorian women to wear a tattoo. Tell me, do the Monitorian men find this alluring?"
"Most men seem to find me attractive... Except for the Pikemen. I had wondered why. Thank thee for the enlightening information."
"Perhaps the sight is too common to affect them. I am certain that Fawn males will not be as... unaffected, shall we say."
"One of Monitor's famed Pikemen! I am Kylista, Priestess of Beauty."
"What a pleasure to meet one who is brave as well as handsome."
"Welcome to Fawn. I am Kylista, Priestess of Beauty."
"Mayest thou walk in Beauty."
"Welcome to Fawn, the city of Beauty. I am Kylista, Priestess of Beauty."
"Hast thou come for instruction in the path of Beauty?"
"Hmmm... Perhaps we could arrange private instruction..."
"A pity. Private instruction is available."
"Thou hast found me out! The Oracle is a fraud!"
"I see now that Captain Voldin and his men did take advantage of me, through the deception called the Oracle."
"Of course we did, Priestess. Men have always had the advantage over the weaker sex..."
"Be still, Voldin. Thou hast been brought low, even as I have."
"How could I have been so naive? I was never part of their plans, but only a tool."
"Perhaps Lady Yelinda will spare my life, when she understands my role -- I, too, was a victim!"
"Voldin doth not count -- he is an animal. What I need is companionship..."
"Perhaps we could become friends."
"They say that thou hast been making friends with young Alyssand, the weaver. I think we, too, could be friends."
"And I'm the kind of friend who could keep thee warm on a cold winter's night. Not like that thin-framed weaver wench."
"The very antithesis of Beauty! Goblins are base savages with no appreciation of Beauty and no grasp of Beauty's truth."
"All things good possess an innate Beauty that attracts all living things."
"To goblins, who are vile, ugly monsters, Beauty is a lie. To Pomdirgun, Beauty is something to be exterminated, not cherished."
"Pomdirgun is the epitome of all repulsive things. He hath risen to unite the goblins against all things good and Beautiful."
"The heavens have tired of our wandering from Beauty's truth. They have sent Pomdirgun to destroy those that fall short of the mark."
"Another sign that the heavens are displeased with our associations with false prophets!"
"Those who call themselves Britannians -- the sailors that dwell outside the city gates to the northeast -- are false prophets!"
"We thought them poor, confused seamen worthy of our embrace. But we were fooled! All they brought were lies!"
"The storms will not end until the blight of the blasphemers' existence hath been wiped from Beauty's face!"
"I would say that she feels rather strongly about this, Avatar. But what she is proposing to stop the storms seems a bit extreme."
"Leon seeks to divert unsuspecting people from Beauty's path. He is the one that hath brought the anger of the heavens down upon us!"
"Lady Yelinda should have ordered him executed for the woes that he hath brought upon our city!"
"Lady Yelinda, honor to her, is the ruler of Fawn."
"I fear that the Great Captains urged her to leniency in favor of their common ties with the sea."
"Joth is a good man, with a fine sense of what needs to be done to keep the fleets in good order."
"He is not, I fear, a good advisor when it comes to political matters. In fact, Zulith would be better in that respect."
"Zulith is Lady Yelinda's secretary. He schedules her audiences and acts as a messenger between her Ladyship and the Great Captains."
"His official title is Chancellor, I believe."
"Garth is no more than a boy! He blows with the wind of anything that catches his fancy, most notably young ladies."
"Garth is of little use in all but representing the interests of the merchant captains."
"He was an evil man, Avatar. Captain Voldin forced me to do his bidding, beating me when I refused!"
"I am glad that thou didst kill him -- glad!"
"The whole scheme was his -- not mine! I did only what I was told. He forced me to serve him..."
"Liar! Thou didst enjoy thy role as Priestess, using thy sensual powers over men."
"Now Voldin is truly what Fawn needs as an advisor! His record of service on land and sea is impeccable."
"Lies! Lies! Simplistic half truths meant to snare the unwitting and twist Beauty's truth!"
"The Oracle was commissioned by Lady Fawn, many years ago, as an instrument to speak the heavens' truths."
"The Mages of Old Sosaria labored for nearly a year before the task was done. The revealed wonder was the Oracle."
"The revelations are truths of heaven filtered through a mouth of stone!"
"Thou hast the Armour of Beauty! Oh, what a sign from the heavens!"
"Return it to me... Perhaps the heavens shall once again smile upon Fawn."
"Oh, was that strange armour that appeared in my bedchamber thine?"
"I cannot recall what I did with it. Perhaps I still have it... Perhaps thou wilt come by some evening and I will look for it."
"Why dost thou not give it to me?"
"Thou hast seen the Armour of Beauty! Oh, will the heavens never smile upon Fawn again?. I would that thou hadst brought it with thee."
"Oh, was that strange armour that appeared in my bedchamber thine?"
"I cannot recall what I did with it. Perhaps I still have it... Perhaps thou wilt come by some evening and I will look for it."
"It is not fitting that I be seen with thee until thou hast been judged by the Oracle."
"Please do not approach me again until the Oracle hath ruled!"
"Thank thee, Avatar! Thank thee for returning me to my former Beauty."
"I am so glad that thou hast come -- and thou hast brought the Good Bard Iolo!"
"Dear Iolo, our subjects have spoken of that fine ballad which thou didst sing, and thy devotion to thy lost wife hath touched our heart."
"Thou art too kind, Lady! I thank thee, and shall give it to Gwenno upon our reunion!"
"This calls for a toast. Hail to Beauty!"
"And to love! Let us drink to the virtues of romance and bliss!"
"And to good rulers, such as beloved Queen Fawn, who founded our fine society."
"Thou must not forget our distant liege, Lady Yelinda. All hail Lord British and the glory that is Britannia!"
"Milady, this one is allied with that foul fiend, Beast British!"
""I am so glad that thou hast come... But where is the Good Bard Iolo?"
"I wish to welcome him as well as thee. Return when he is with thee!"
"What an interesting Beauty mark thou hast... I am Lady Yelinda, ruler of Fawn -- the city of Beauty."
"Welcome to the city of Beauty. I am Lady Yelinda, ruler of Fawn."
"Until thy friend's innocence or guilt hath been proven, Avatar, we may not speak together."
"Oh, horrible, vile creatures! They have killed all the Pikemen that were guarding the road to our beautiful city."
"Whatever shall we do now?"
"Wonderful people. They hail from Monitor. They keep the roads safe."
"'Tis south of here. I do not associate with them. They are too warlike."
"Chancellor Zulith deals with them for me."
"The Great Captains deal with them for me."
"Yes, Joth, Garth, and Voldin. They are my most trusted advisors... Aside from the Chancellor, of course."
"They handle all the horrible little details of running the city. I would be lost without them, 'tis certain."
"Quite a nuisance, actually."
"She is quite helpful to me. I think I shall make her my chief advisor..."
"The Oracle says the storms are a result of permitting the heretics within the city gates."
"Odd that they did not stop after the heretics were banished from the city. I shall have to consult Kylista."
"They and their passengers arrived shortly before the storms began."
"There was a portly mage named Batlin and a lovely lady named Gwenno."
"A disagreeable fellow. Travelled with some very rough sorts. He was seeking Daemon artifacts, I believe."
"Thou mayest find them throughout the land. They are of little interest... not Beautiful at all."
"Our city was named after the beautiful ruler who commissioned the Oracle."
"Thou hast never heard of the Oracle of Beauty?" *"Thou shouldst speak with Kylista at the temple."
"She is the most beautiful woman in town..."
"aside from myself, of course."
"She is the Priestess of Beauty. Thou canst find her at the temple."
"'Tis the largest building in the city, except for my palace."
"We revere and protect all beautiful things here in Fawn. Everyone is dedicated to the truths of Beauty."
"Forgive me, I thought I had already introduced myself. I am Lady Yelinda."
"At last, the values of The Fellowship have reached into the ranks of the Pikemen! I am honored."
"I am Leon, a speaker for The Fellowship and former farmer."
"I always have time for those who come seeking knowledge. Be welcome."
"I am Leon, a speaker for The Fellowship and former farmer."
"While the Virtues that Lord British expounded are all very well and good, they are nearly impossible for ordinary people to achieve."
"Simple people need a simple philosophy."
"The Triad of Inner Strength is the answer."
"Surely thou must know the importance of learning to cooperate and work together."
"The main stumbling block to Unity lies in a lack of Trust."
"If thou dost trust thy brother, thou wouldst not live in fear. Without fear, our lives are happier and Unity may grow and thrive."
"How wouldst thou feel, if all that thou hadst strived for were given to a man who had done nothing to deserve it?"
"I will wager that thou wouldst feel the injustice."
"If everyone strives to be worthy of that which they seek, such injustices would be few."
"Let every person be rewarded according to their merits and Trust and Unity will follow naturally."
"Following the Triad of Inner Strength allows one to become attuned to the Inner Voice."
"If everyone learned to listen to their Inner Voice, I could return to Britannia and farm contentedly for the rest of my life."
"Now that Lady Yelinda hath admitted my people within the city walls, we shall be safe from the goblins."
"Without the fine aid of thee and thy Monitorian comrades, these poor sailors and I would have been lost long ago."
"Kylista refused us the safety of the city walls, even when the tower fell to the barbaric goblins."
"I never thought that I would rue the day that another intelligent being learned the truths of The Fellowship."
"But we would be doing far better if the goblins had not found Unity under the leadership of Pomdirgun."
"Hast thou come seeking the wisdom of The Fellowship so that thee and thy Monitorian comrades can reclaim the tower?"
"Even now, Kylista refuses us refuge within the city walls."
"Obviously, she fears the truths of The Fellowship as much as she fears Pomdirgun."
"Without the fine aid of the Pikemen, these poor sailors and I would have been lost long ago."
"Kylista refused us the safety of the city walls, even when the tower fell to the barbaric goblins."
"I never thought that I would rue the day that another intelligent being learned the truths of The Fellowship."
"But we would be doing far better if the goblins had not found Unity under the leadership of Pomdirgun."
"Thou art one among many that have come seeking the wisdom of The Fellowship to withstand these difficult times."
"Thou shouldst not stay overlong outside the city walls, even if Kylista refuses refuge to me and my companions."
"Obviously, she fears the truths of The Fellowship as much as she fears Pomdirgun."
"She is the Priestess of Beauty -- the cult that controls Fawn."
"Kylista presides over the Oracle, which never varies in supporting her views..."
"It was commissioned by Lady Fawn herself, and built by the Mages of Britannia."
"'Twas to be an instrument of truth... I cannot say that that is still so."
"It gives revelations throughout the day."
"For the most part, they are simple platitudes that further ingrain their reverence of Beauty."
"They do nothing to help the people improve their lives."
"At other times -- like when the sailors and I were banished from the city -- they reflect the wishes of Kylista and the Great Captains."
"They are the counselors of Lady Yelinda, by title. They control the fishing fleets... or did before the storms began."
"Sadly, she pays no more heed of him than her mirror. Her interests, I think, lie more in line with Jorvin, Captain of the Guard."
"Zulith is a puppet for Kylista and the Great Captains. But beware of him, friend, for he can be vicious if slighted."
"Garth is the most junior of the three Great Captains. His interests seem to lie mostly in impressing the ladies of the city."
"I do not think he dares go against the wishes of the other two Captains."
"Voldin is perhaps the person who would most benefit from practicing Worthiness."
"I have heard that he is diverting funds from the fleets for his own gain. But who can say for sure?"
"It is his heavy hand that holds the reins of the city. Thou shouldst be careful around him. He is a violent man."
"He hath but lately declared himself chief of all goblins."
"Batlin was right. We cannot hope to survive if Unity is not brought to this place."
"Thou knowest Batlin?"
"What canst thou tell us of home? What news of his noble cause?"
"What a wondrous man of insight he is!"
"'Tis a pity that thou didst miss him. He hath gone inland to spread word of The Fellowship."
"This is unthinkable! Surely there hath been some mistake!"
"There is nothing evil in our principles! They are meant for all, without regard for station of birth."
"Batlin must be told of this! If he returns to Britannia to explain to Lord British, I am sure that everything will be settled."
"Perhaps our good name was degraded by those wishing to stop our ministering... But that shows a lack of Trust."
"I must meditate on this. Mine Inner Voice will no doubt provide an answer for such horrible news."
"Bold wench, thou art, to wear a tattoo so openly."
"Be careful, mate, lest thou be mistaken for an honest seafarin' man."
"I have business to attend to. Be quick."
"Returned again?"
"Second Mate Kalen, to ye."
"I'm a seafarer. And I do whate'er the Cap'n wants done."
"Green fellows. Hospitable. Be thou sure to accept their dinner invitation."
"Afraid of a bit of rain?"
"I can keep ye safe, darlin'. Thou shouldst come over ta mine hut..."
"Run back to town like a good boy. I am sure the Lady would find ye an interesting pet."
"Thou art hard to catch, Avatar. But now thou must die!"
"Thou canst defeat me, Avatar. But thou hast no hope against the power of Iolo the Mad..."
"My death only delays the inevitable, Avatar. Batlin will soon have more power than thou canst dream of, and my reward will be sure..."
"Say there, thou with the lute! Art thou a bard?"
"Yes, I am, though as of late I do not feel the music within me."
"I beg of thee, canst thou indulge me for but one song? The sinister thunder doth linger in mine ears."
"A few strums from thy strings may bring comfort to this sorrowful town..."
"I am truly sorry, but I do not think that I can help thee..."
"Go away, I'm not drunk enough yet."
"By my sore eyes! 'Tis a comely wench wit' a tattoo... like any good sailor! Me name's Olon, and I'm a fisherman by trade."
"Welcome back, ol' friend. These're thirsty times, aye?"
"Come lift a glass wit' me, lass. I do enjoy the company of a tattooed wench!"
"Come lift a glass wit' me, lad. Tell me what a brave Pikeman like ye have been a doin'."
"Now don't go tellin' me that thou beest a Pikeman like those ugly sons out in the tower."
"Join me over a bottle of Fawn's finest ale and we can swap tales. I'd like ta know how a beauty like thee came away with a tattoo."
"There's this island... Can't at all remember where it is. No one lives there, though. A barren, uninviting place..."
"Oh, not that ale tale again, Olon! If thou drivest away what customers I have left, thou canst find somewhere else ta drink."
"Quit thy complainin', Jendon. I'm the only reason anyone comes in here now, and thou knowest it! They come ta hear me tales..."
"Be that as may be, Olon. 'Tis not some bar maid that thou art speakin' with. Some of thy tales are not fit for any but a sailor's ears."
"What objection hast thou of this tale?"
"Frighten a saucy thing that wears a tattoo? Now where was I? Oh, yes..."
"Frighten such an adventurous wench? Now where was I? Oh, yes..."
"Turn the stomach of so bold a lad? Now where was I? Oh, yes..."
"Delphynia is an herbalist."
"She's a Horticulturist, Olon. Thou shouldst only give facts..."
"Thou wouldst have me say such things in front of a lady? Weren't thou the one what was tellin' me ta mind me manners?"
"Thou wouldst have me say such things of a lady? Weren't thou the one what was tellin' me ta mind me manners?"
"Oh, I surrender!"
"An' him worried about what's proper an' what's not..."
"She's what passes for a healer in these forsaken parts ever since the last healer were et by them goblins."
"Don't rant on about the goblins, Olon! 'Tis not a fit subject ta discuss before a lady."
"Go back ta washin' the glasses, Jendon! Thou art no judge of what ta say in front of ladies."
"Don't rant on about the goblins, Olon! Thou canst turn the stomach of a bilge rat when thou dost have a mind to."
"Go back ta washin' the glasses, Jendon! Thou art no judge of what a darin' adventurer like this 'ere lad might like ta hear."
"I'd throw thee out, if thou weren't mine only steady customer. I would."
"Wouldst thou care to spend a while longer listenin' to another story?"
"Ah, I know just the one for a bold wench as thyself! A tale ta stir the blood, that's for certain... the King of the White Dragon!"
"Ah, I know just the one for a bold warrior as thyself! A tale ta stir the blood, that's for certain... the King of the White Dragon!"
"Olon, even I don't want ta hear that one... ever again!"
"Thou always didst lack a backbone, Jendon! Go ta Temple and soothe thy nerves with the Oracle's empty mouthings!"
"Now 'tis blasphemy, is it, Olon? I would never have guessed thou hadst been taken in by that lot of fools."
"Thou art a fine one ta be talkin' about being taken in, Jendon. An' I've said so often enough."
"That's all thou ever dost, Olon -- talk."
"It sits crouching in the shadow of the palace. But 'tis what controls the palace, if'n thou knowest what I mean."
"Perhaps he is right. Perhaps this tale is too rough for thy pretty ears. Dost thou wish me ta tell another tale instead?"
"Then perhaps thou wouldst prefer ta hear a tale of a timeless love story that crosses the frozen wastes."
"I was right! Thou art a sturdy wench! I'll tell thee a fine love story next. Now where was I?"
"Perhaps he is right. Perhaps this tale is too brutal even for thee. Dost thou wish me ta tell another tale instead?"
"Then perhaps thou wouldst prefer ta hear a tale of a timeless love story that crosses the frozen wastes."
"I was right! Thou art a brave lad! I'll tell thee a fine love story next. Now where was I?"
"They say he lives there still, feeding off any who pass by. One thing's certain, the goblins don't go near that place to this very day."
"This is not thine usual love story, no. This here's about dragons, ice dragons."
"A love story about ice dragons! Now I've heard everything, even from thee, Olon."
"Thou wouldst not recognize a love story if it hit thee between the eyes, Jendon."
"So sayest thou, Olon. I think Alyssand's story qualifies well enough."
"Shows what thou knowest, Jendon. We bards would call that a tragedy."
"Thou wouldst style thyself a bard now? Perhaps I should bow."
"Do that, and quiet! Thou hast interrupted all my tales so far. 'Tis rude."
"The only other thing I ever heard from those mages that made sense is that a dragon turns very hostile if its mate or young is killed."
"Now that's truly touchin', Olon. Thou surely hast brought a tear ta mine eye, thou hast."
"Alyssand's the daughter of Delin, the shopkeeper. Thou mightest think she hath had enough sadness in her short life."
"'Tis hard ta find many who have borne more, I'll wager."
"A sturdy lad, Keth was. 'Twere a pity ta lose him."
"I'll thank thee to keep thy comments to thyself, Jendon. Thou art ruining my tale."
"Cost him a pretty penny, I'll wager."
"Sounds like a love story to me..."
"An' I suppose that thou considerest the island of cats a tragedy then?"
"No, I'd call it an ale tale.. made from the fumes of mine ale!"
"That could be it, right enough. Though thou shouldst ask Alyssand herself. Mine eyes are not what they were."
"'Tis it, sure as the tide comes in! Keth flashed it around enough, I'd recognize it anywhere."
"Why not say that thou art the new Lady of Fawn, whilst thou art about it, bold wench? Methinks that thy tales must be taller than mine."
"Now that be truly difficult, too."
"I think that thou wouldst benefit from the wisdom of an honest tradesman. Perhaps it would divert thy mind from a foolish girl's dreams."
"Now, if thou dost want to know more about them, thou shouldst ask them. The Lady hath let them back into the city, thou dost know..."
"Thou canst blaspheme all thou likest, Olon, I was there and heard it!"
"I'm not so far gone in me cups as ta not be able ta see the mark that thou bearest on thy face. All the world knows thee for a Pikeman."
"But thou must be weary after takin' back the tower from those foul goblins. Pull up a chair an' we'll swap a few yarns over a cup or two."
"I'm certain that thou hast many yarns ta tell. Wert thou amongst the company that retook the tower?"
"I'd wager that it was as gruesome as the King of the White Dragon's castle."
"I'd not be in thy shoes, good Pikeman. Retaking that tower will be as gruesome as the King of the White Dragon's castle."
"Listen ta him, wilt thou? Art thou sayin' that thou art Fawn's bard now, Olon?"
"Our 'ficial one went down with the Delyssia. Reckon I'm all there is now."
"They say he lives there still, feeding off any who pass by. One thing's for sure, the goblins don't go near that place ta this very day."
"There's this island... Can't at all remember where it is. No one lives there, though. A barren, uninviting place..."
"Oh, not again, Olon! If thou drivest away what customers I have left, thou canst find somewhere else ta drink."
"This be Delphynia's favorite tale."
"Delphynia is an herbalist."
"She's a Hor-ti-culturist, Olon. Thou shouldst only give facts..."
"Thou wouldst have me say such things in front of a stranger? 'Tisn't polite ta speak of a lady in such a fashion, Jendon."
"Oh, I surrender!"
"She's what passes for a healer in these forsaken parts ever since the last healer was et by them goblins."
"Don't rant on about the goblins, Olon! `Tis not a subject this young lord wishes ta hear right now, I'm certain."
"Return ta washin' the glasses, Jendon! Thou art no judge of what a warrior wishes ta hear."
"And thou art? I'd throw thee out, if thou weren't mine only steady customer. I would."
"This is not thine usual love story, no. This here's about dragons, ice dragons."
"A love story about ice dragons! Now I've heard everything, even from thee, Olon."
"Thou wouldst not recognize a love story if it hit thee between the eyes, Jendon."
"So sayest thou, Olon. I think Alyssand's story qualifies well enough."
"Shows what thou knowest, Jendon. We bards would call that a tragedy."
"Perhaps I should bow."
"Do that, and quiet! Thou art rude to interrupt."
"The only other thing I ever heard from those mages that made sense is that a dragon is very hostile if its mate or young is killed."
"Now that's truly touchin', Olon. Thou surely hast brought a tear ta mine eye, thou hast."
"Alyssand's the daughter of Delin, the shopkeeper. Thou mightest think she hath had enough sadness in her short life."
"'Tis hard ta find many who have borne more, I'll wager."
"Her mother died after givin' birth ta Delin's only son. Never saw a man take it harder. He near ta lost his mind."
"A sturdy lad, Keth was. 'Twere a pity ta lose him."
"I'll thank thee ta keep thy comments ta thyself, Jendon. Thou art ruining my tale."
"Cost him a pretty penny, I'll wager."
"Then one day Keth didn't run fast enough ta shelter when one of those cursed storms hit. No one hath seen him since."
"Sounds like a love story ta me..."
"Goes ta show what thou knowest!"
"That could be it, right enough. Though thou shouldst ask Alyssand herself. Mine eyes are not what they were."
"'Tis it, sure as the tide comes in! Keth flashed it around enough, I'd recognize it anywhere."
"'Tis a drink from the heavens. Thou shouldst try it."
"I'd advise against it, lady. There aren't many outside Fawn that care for its taste, I've found. I only export a bit ta Monitor now."
"If thou wishest Fawn ale, it only comes in brown bottles."
"The drink of hard-workin' men! A drink ta put hair on thy chest and make the women throw themselves at thee." *"Thou shouldst try it."
"Be careful, Olon. There aren't many outside Fawn that care for its taste. I only export a bit ta Monitor now."
"If thou wishest Fawn ale, it comes only in brown bottles."
"Wilt thou buy me a drink? I would be glad ta share stories with thee if thou dost."
"Jendon! Bring thy lazy backside over here! Thou hast a payin' customer with a thirst."
"Seest thou, Jendon, not everyone is as hard-hearted as thee!"
"Not enough filari, no drink. No drink, no stories. Well, thou knowest where ta find me, if thou dost wish ta hear me stories."
"Changed thy mind, aye? No drink, no stories. Well, thou knowest where ta find me, if thou dost wish ta hear me stories."
"No drink, no stories! Thou knowest where ta find me, if thou dost wish ta hear me stories."
"They'll not cook thee, Olon. Thou art already pickled!"
"An' they'll not eat thy tongue, either... 'Tis too tough from overuse!"
"How wouldst thou know, Olon? Thou hast never seen one, I'll wager!"
"Nor would I like ta... Thou art enough ta scare a man half ta death!"
"If thou weren't mine only steady customer, Olon, I'd throw thee out on thine ear! I would."
"Perhaps 'twould be best if thou didst not ask him about such things right now. He's no use like this."
"I haven't seen one that size since the last time we sailed around that big forest north of here. They were all over there."
"Sounds like a big pinecone!"
"I haven't heard tell of one that size since the last time we sailed around that big forest north of here. They were all over there."
"Poor critter. Thou shouldst give it a decent burial... Before Jendon sees it, if thou dost know what be good for thee."
"He be mighty partic'lar about things like that in his inn."
"I never figured that Jendon would be listenin' ta my tales! It sounds just like them cats on that island..."
"Did I tell thee about the islands of cats?"
"Oh, well... Another time, perhaps."
"My name is Ruggs. I am a poor sailor whose visage offends the good people of Fawn, and I have been forbidden entry into the city."
"My visage offends the good people of Fawn, and I have been forbidden entry into the city."
"I have not heard from the lady I love since mine exile, and I can find no one willing to carry her word of my continuing devotion."
"Oh, I knew by the nobility of thy face that thou wouldst take pity on a wretch such as myself!"
"Take this to Delphynia, the herbalist. Thou mayest find her at the greenhouse."
"If thou shouldst bring a return message, I will introduce thee to my shipmate, Scots, who makes maps."
"Perhaps his cartography would be of aid to thee."
"How can thine heart be so hard, Avatar? Thou wouldst search every corner of the land and sea to help me find Gwenno."
"Wilt thou reconsider and aid this poor soul's search for love?"
"There may be hope after all... Here is the scroll."
"Take this to Delphynia, the herbalist. Thou mayest find her at the greenhouse."
"If thou shouldst bring a return message, I will introduce thee to my shipmate, Scots, who makes maps."
"Perhaps his cartography would be of aid to thee."
"I am sure that thou hast thy reasons, Avatar. But I am sorely disappointed."
"The Avatar! Forgive me... unlike these local folk, I know whom thou art!"
"I am certain that thy business is far more urgent."
"Have a drink or two... Thou wilt soon forget her."
"Oh, no... Why is it that everyone expects the Avatar to help with their love life?"
"Why... I..."
"Thou wouldst not be so hard, Shamino, if thou hadst lost thy love!"
"Greetings, good Knight! The sight of thee and thy companions is always heartening, for the Goblins fear such as thee."
"I am Ruggs, a poor sailor from Britannia. How may I serve thee today?"
"I am Ruggs, a poor sailor exiled from Britannia and from Fawn. How may I serve thee today?"
"All is lost, Avatar! All is lost!"
"'Tis always a pleasure to see another Britannian at Fawn, Avatar. How may I serve thee today?"
"All dead! Hast thou not seen their bodies heaped about the desolate buildings?"
"I do not remember it clearly, for my sanity was lost when I found Delphynia's body."
"Mad Iolo, he doth call himself now! His eyes are all afire, and he doth act like a man possessed."
"Such cruel acts did he commit, that I cannot relate them lest my soul shrivel and die."
"Yet Mad Iolo did laugh the entire time..."
"There is nothing thou canst do -- all is done for, all is lost!"
"The City of Beauty hath become the City of Blood and Ruin. Only I am left alive."
"Dost thou not see the irony? Only I, the ugliest of all, yet remain to dwell in Fawn!"
"Our ship was hired by Batlin to transport scholars to explore a new land and spread word of The Fellowship."
"Now, even if we wanted to return without Batlin, we cannot venture onto the sea for fear of these terrible storms."
"Thou hast not heard of Batlin? He was the founder of The Fellowship movement, in Britannia."
"He is a pious and worthy man, for all that he doth have strange companions."
"Batlin bade Leon stay and preach to the populace of Fawn and left the ship with three companions: Palos, Brunt and Deadeye."
"We have not seen them since. Although they promised to return soon."
"Very well..."
"Leon was especially chosen by Batlin to come and bring the hope of The Fellowship to this land."
"He hath been the only thing that hath kept us all sane since we have been stranded here."
"I strive to emulate him, in mine own humble way."
"And, as Leon sows the seeds of The Fellowship, I sow seeds in the soil. Gardening distracts my thoughts from being trapped ashore."
"We were all very thankful that he was so strong, I tell thee that."
"During a storm, the main mast was struck by lightning and came crashing down, jamming the winch that operated the sea anchor."
"I suspect that Batlin hired him to act as a personal guard in this foreign land. He is not fit for much else."
"Brunt is no seaman, 'tis true."
"If I had not seen his face the day he boarded, I would have thought him a Daemon. He was so green."
"And what a temper! 'Tis to be hoped he is better mannered on land."
"Deadeye is the only one of Batlin's companions that I truly know. I cannot say that I'm happy about the association, either."
"Deadeye liked to provoke a fight and dare the other man to hit him. No one would, for fear of that eye."
"But I've never seen lightning that changes a man into a rock, or makes a ship disappear before thy very eyes."
"I was holding the door open for one of the crew who was running for shelter when one of those storms hit."
"With my very own eyes, I saw it!"
"I was on the Fawn docks chatting with a salt named Olon, in the days before I was banned from the city."
"All of a sudden one of those storms hit and Olon and I dove for cover under a rowboat."
"We saw the ship that had just put out be hit by the lightning and it just... disappeared! Never found a trace of it or her crew."
"The Great Lady did flee Fawn in a terrible hurry, due to the Curse. All she left behind was her Diamond Necklace."
"She hath been made as disfigured as I am. Imagine, to plummet from Beauty to Ugliness!"
"It hath driven her insane."
"I did find the necklace lying in the throne room."
"But I did not take it, for it belongs to the Lady. And the rats shall not disturb it."
"I found her pitiful body dumped in the street, with her insides... twisted... torn out..."
"She was long dead..."
"I brought her body to where it is now. I could not leave my love to lie in the open, for the rats to gnaw."
"Delphynia is Fawn's horticulturist and healer, of late. I met her when I accompanied Batlin into town for supplies."
"Thou wilt understand why I love her, if thou shouldst meet her."
"Delphynia is Fawn's horticulturist and healer, of late. I met her when I accompanied Batlin into town for supplies."
"To me, she is the most beautiful woman in Fawn. When thou dost meet her, I'm sure that thou wilt agree with me."
"Thou hast met her... Delphynia is the most beautiful woman in all Fawn, to me."
"She is also a fine horticulturist and healer. I met her when I accompanied Batlin into town for supplies."
"They are hard pressed, what with the Goblins and all."
"It is such a relief to be able to shelter behind the walls of Fawn. I think the goblins cannot reach us here."
"Now that the Goblins hold thy Pikemen tower, Fawn doth have little hope of withstanding a determined attack."
"I fear that my companions and I will be the next delicacy in the Goblin stewpot without thy protection."
"We do not have city gates to hide behind."
"'Tis a blessing that thou and thine honored Pikemen companions did wrest the Fawn tower from the Goblins."
"We have no city gates to hide behind."
"Now that the Goblins hold the Pikemen tower, Fawn doth have little hope of withstanding a determined attack."
"I fear that my companions and I will be the next delicacy in the Goblin stewpot."
"We do not have city gates to hide behind."
"'Tis a blessing that the honored Pikemen ripped the Fawn tower from them Goblins."
"We have no city gates to hide behind."
"Delphynia knows of my love, though she is unsure of her feelings for me."
"As long as she hath not rejected me out of hand, I will be content to wait. Thy good deed hath given me reason to live!"
"As promised, I will send thee to my shipmate, Scots."
"Scots is a fine fellow, though he often seems a bit distracted. He is a cartographer."
"Perhaps his maps will aid thee, though they are not as accurate as he wishes."
"Thou mayest find him somewhere within our camp."
"Since we dare not stray too far from shelter, Scots cannot explore and map."
"He hath worked from existing maps that he received from the Fawn fishermen, so he is only sure of the accuracy of the coastline."
"Scots often complains that we cannot even explore by ship. None of us are happy to be stranded here."
"Good, a new face! I am Scots, a geographer. Perhaps thou wouldst share tales of other places with me, so I might add detail to my maps."
"I think that we shall be safe from their raiding parties, now that the Lady hath admitted us within the city walls."
"The Pikemen track them into the woods around their Knight's Test, west of here. Then they simply seem to disappear."
"They are warriors that come from Monitor, a city south of here. Very brave. I can usually count on many tales from them."
"'Tis a shame to see any creature so beautiful placed behind bars, but I think we shall all be safer because of it."
"I know thee for what thou art, stranger! And I shall testify at the trial."
"Ah, one of Monitor's female Pikemen. I am Zulith, Chancellor of Fawn. It is mine honor and duty to serve thee."
"Welcome to Fawn, city of Beauty. My name is Zulith. I am the Chancellor. It is mine honor and duty to serve thee."
"Besides, what hast thou done to warrant thy worries that I might be following thee?"
"Quite disruptive... They have totally depleted our fishing fleet."
"If only these terrible storms would end!"
"Great Captain Garth doth have plans laid for rebuilding the ships. But 'twould not be safe until these storms subside."
"Great Captain Joth is in charge of finding the means to sustain the city until this unusual weather clears."
"Of course. What dost thou desire to know?"
"The Great Captains are the counsellors to Lady Yelinda, ruler of Fawn. There are three of them: Garth, Joth and Voldin."
"'Tis their honor to oversee the fleets and all trade matters."
"They are all seamen who have been appointed to their post in recognition of their expertise."
"Voldin doth have a history of service to Fawn. He was unanimously nominated for the council position by his fellow captains."
"Voldin works in conjunction with the Captain of the Guard to assure Fawn's safety. He is senior on the council."
"Voldin served Fawn as a member of the city guard in his younger days. Before he became a council member, he was a fishing captain."
"Garth is also something of a ladies' man, I fear."
"His family doth own a shipping business. They have been merchant seamen for generations."
"Joth was the finest sea captain before he was injured."
"He favors beginning to rebuild the fleet now, but hath deferred to Voldin's opinion that it would not be safe to do so at this time."
"No, we must wait until this weather clears before we can hope to begin rebuilding our fleet."
"Most horrible creatures!"
"Dost thou know that, without the possibility of escape by ship because of the storms, I had actually feared that the city might be lost?"
"Knowest thou the brave Pikemen that restored our safety? I am sure that Lady Yelinda would like to thank them personally, if possible."
"Pray tell me their names that I might relay them to her Ladyship at once."
"Thou canst not be faulted for not knowing their names. No doubt there are quite a number of Pikemen."
"Lady Yelinda will have to send her thanks back to Monitor."
"The goblins are most likely preparing for an assault on our city."
"I would be most distraught to know that thou wert going to endanger thyself."
"The goblins are most likely preparing for an assault on our city."
"Shouldst thou not lend thy bravery to the cause of restoring our city's safety, noble Pikeman?"
"Most horrible creatures!"
"Thou canst not be faulted for not knowing their names. No doubt there are quite a number of Pikemen."
"Lady Yelinda will have to send her thanks back to Monitor."
"Then thou hast companions beyond compare!"
"Lady Yelinda will surely wish to meet thee, a shining example of Beauty!"
"Truly thou art the bravest Monitorian alive!"
"Lady Yelinda will surely wish to thank thee herself."
"Surely thou dost jest!"
"They could not have allowed someone as beautiful as thyself to be endangered!"
"Truly thou art the bravest Monitorian alive!"
"Lady Yelinda will surely wish to thank thee herself."
"I serve the Lady, handling those details which she doth choose to delegate to me. I also exchange various forms of money."
"If thou dost wish an audience with her, I can examine her schedule."
"She is the ruler of Fawn and all its environs. All who honor Beauty honor Yelinda."
"She is a wise and compassionate leader. Everyone doth love her. Her beauty is only rivaled by that of Kylista."
"Kylista is the priestess of Beauty."
"Yelinda is the embodiment of all of Fawn itself. Because Kylista presides over the Oracle, she is the personification of Beauty."
"Many people believe that the Mages of Old Sosaria created the Oracle. I do not believe such."
"I have stood alone in the temple gazing at it, and I will tell thee that it is a living being trapped there in that statue."
"Those Mages did not create a magical item! They summoned some beautiful spirit and trapped it there!"
"Hello, stranger. I am Andral of Monitor. Dost thou need the services of a master artist?"
"Perhaps I should not speak with thee... I hope thou art not come to rob me!"
"I am a sculptor by trade. There is a brisk business to be done in this city, fashioning busts and statues for the Knights."
"But I can make time for thee, if thou dost wish to commission my talents."
"Dost thou wish to commission a work from me?"
"I am proud of thee! Thy life and thy deeds are all the testament anyone truly needs, provided one hath truly made something of their life."
"Thou mayest have noticed the various sculptures around the town. I crafted many of them."
"But, alas, an artist is always misunderstood."
"There is so little time in this life, and 'twould be an utter waste for someone of mine artistic abilities to engage in duels."
"Should I spend that hour in profitless combat, solely to please my fellow Knights? I think not."
"Instead, I could be crafting another masterpiece, so that my name will be known to future generations. This is true glory."
"I have no friends. The Knights tolerate me and value my services, but they do not share mine interests."
"There once was a woman who cared for me, but we quarrelled. She, too, hath art in her soul, but she hides her secret well."
"Lucilla would not pay the price that I have, to be so alone. Do not weep for me, my friend -- I am proud of who I am."
"I am not sure that I care to speak about the incident. 'Twas most unpleasant."
"There was a stranger in Monitor, one who claimed to be from another land. He was very large, a scholar rather than a warrior."
"He travelled with many companions, including a tall, cloaked stranger."
"On the night that Batlin the Sage left town, someone stole an ancient relic from mine home. I suspect that he was the thief!"
"He came inquiring about ancient ruins, and was especially interested in the Serpent Stone -- but Renfry can tell thee more of this."
"Simon the Innkeeper heard the sage say that he had come here from Fawn."
"The City of Beauty lies due north of here, on the shores of a great bay. Fawn is a city of fishermen."
"The women of Fawn are the most beautiful in the land, but they are overly pampered."
"Monitorian females, on the other hand, are as strong as oxen!"
"There is not much to say! The one in the cloak spent most of his time in the inn, and seldom spoke."
"Perhaps Simon could tell thee more."
"There was also a warrior named Brunt who travelled with Batlin. He was small in stature, but with incredibly broad shoulders --"
"Oh! If only he would have posed in my studio! I could have created such art..."
"Standarr fought him in the List Field, and said that he was an opponent unlike any other!"
"Mine ancestors found the relic when they first founded this city, and it hath been kept in the family all this time."
"We hated the object, yet we were afraid to be parted from it. I cannot explain this. But it was so."
"Monitorians are not a superstitious people, yet we fear the ancient ruins."
"The Serpent was their sign."
"Indeed, 'twas as if a living serpent had been changed into stone -- a perfect replica!"
"'Tis not uncommon to see the symbol of the serpent among the ruins, yet I have never seen before or since any such Rock Serpent."
"Umm... why, the head curved to the right, and the body was most sinuous. Why dost thou ask?"
"But let me say this -- Batlin shall not rest in peace, for a powerful warrior is on his trail!"
"Dost thou know of Wilfred the Slayer?"
"Then I need say no more. Surely, Wilfred shall slay the evil sage and reap my revenge."
"Wilfred is a Knight of Monitor, but his home is at the inn of the Sleeping Bull."
"Batlin hath been there as well, and Wilfred's father hath mysteriously disappeared. Wilfred suspects the sage of being involved."
"Surely, brave Wilfred shall track down the sage and kill him, and I shall enjoy sweet revenge!"
"Thou canst find the inn of the Sleeping Bull by taking the Serpent Highway north from here."
"There is not much there, save for an ancient inn for which the village is named. Wilfred's brother Argus doth operate it."
"I have not seen thee in Monitor before. Thou art new here. Welcome!"
"So 'tis thee again. Well met! How shall I aid thee?"
"So, Simon was a Goblin in disguise! 'Twas a clever bit of deduction on thy part to uncover his secret."
"Thou didst find evidence in the woods? Good thinking! Thou shouldst have been a Bear, not a Wolf..."
"I know naught of bottles, but thou mightest ask Lucilla at the tavern. Or perhaps Krayg the Provisioner."
"Perhaps Luther is right! As provisioner, Krayg could obtain many kinds of bottles..."
"The villain Marsten currently resides in our prison, thanks to thee."
"He is the chieftain of the Leopard Command, and the current Lord of our Town."
"I am called Caladin, after mine own grandfather. He was a Champion Knight!"
"And if I ever discover who has his urn, I shall wring their neck! Canst thou imagine, someone stealing the Ashes of the Dead?"
"Hast thou forgotten? Why, I am Caladin!"
"The Champion Knight of Monitor is the one who hath won the right to wear the Helm of Courage."
"As thou hast recovered it, that right naturally has fallen to thee."
"I am not superstitious, mind thee, but I do believe that a man's ashes are sacred. They represent his soul, his heart, his honor."
"To know that my grandfather's ashes have been taken from the Crypts..."
"Nothing is more important than one's honor! I am a valiant man, and I can promise thee three things --"
"I shall never surrender my sword to my foe."
"My promised word shall never be broken."
"Fear is beneath me, and I refuse to let the creeping stink of fright soil my mind. I shall always be fearless."
"The Ashes of the Dead are kept in the mountain caves, where wild beasts cannot defile the urns."
"Renfry is the caretaker there. If thou dost desire to pay thy respects to the dead, thou shalt no doubt encounter him there."
"Certainly..."
"Thou dost? An Urn of the Dead? How didst thou chance upon it? Perhaps thou hast slain the thieves who insulted mine ancestor's soul!"
"Might I examine it, please?"
"This is my grandfather! Thou hast reunited the souls of my family!"
"Please accept this gift as an expression of my sincerest gratitude."
"Thou art a fool, to turn thy back on coins freely offered."
"Ah, 'tis not the urn I am looking for."
"Then perhaps thou art the thief! I shall not speak with thee further!"
"I am the leader of the Command of the Bear. The Bears are the bravest, most virile warriors in Monitor! Courage is our name."
"Do not smirk! The Command of the Bear is unmovable. The Goblins dare not assault Monitor, for they know that we are here."
"I am also one of the best combat trainers in the land, shouldst thou need such aid."
"The Knights of Monitor each serve a particular commmand. Each command espouses its own unique military strategy."
"The wretched beasts! I suppose thou hast heard of the ambush at Fawn Tower. They do not fight fair!"
"Poor Astrid... she was an inspiring warrior, as well as a lusty wench. Damn, but she could kill Goblins..."
"At least that miserable Pomdirgun hath gone to his grave. Or by the way of the Goblins, probably the cooking pot, more like."
"Besides the Tower here, there is a second at Sleeping Bull. The third Tower was near Fawn, and hath been overrun by Goblins."
"Now that we have recaptured the Fawn Tower, our security is again guaranteed."
"So maybe I should keep my own counsel, but I'm not the quiet type. The Fawn Tower was betrayed!"
"How else did the Goblins surprise the entire patrol? Astrid was no fool. Someone betrayed her."
"Whoever betrayed Astrid's patrol must have been a Knight -- no one else could have done it."
"I don't trust that weakling Krayg, but if he says to look for evidence in the woods, perhaps thou shouldst."
"However, he might be sending thee to another ambush! Hmmm..."
"Krayg is the most likely suspect, as thou didst hear Luther proclaim at the banquet."
"The Bears suspect Krayg the Provisioner of being involved, but the Wolves deny it -- of course!"
"Someone should question that weakling, and see if his guilt can be proven."
"I'll admit Lydia dishonored herself by poisoning thee. 'Twas a shameful act."
"Yet I cannot believe that she'd betray her entire city to the Goblins. Impossible!"
"I tell thee, Krayg is the traitor..."
"Ha! Shmed was the worst coward in Monitor. We let him hide in Knight's Test to spare ourselves the agony of exiling him."
"He was terrified of Goblins! So how could he have become their spy? This makes no sense."
"Besides, the matter at Knight's Test smacks of wizardry. I think thou hast an unknown enemy from among the Mages of Moonshade!"
"As thou hast probably guessed, I am especially good with female students... But thou shouldst ask me of this another time."
"A woman of Courage! I perceive that thou hast the spirit of a warrior."
"Glad to see that ye have some spirit, my boy! Knighthood is what divides the real men from the weak-willed boys."
"Fiery explosions! Wild animals! Puzzles to queer the mind, and mysteries beyond the understanding of mortals!"
"I do not have time to repeat everything again! Go thou and ask young Cantra -- she hath nothing better to do."
"I'll give thee three clues:"
"In the first chamber, speed is the clue. Do not look back, or ye'll be a goner."
"Later on, seek that which cannot be seen. It may be hard to find."
"I am surprised thou dost not know of the girl. She hath a bright curiosity, and is always pestering visitors."
"There have also been many Goblins in the area, so beware!"
"He is the Keeper of Knight's Test. Shmed is a Wolf, and if thou dost ask me, he hath gone soft. Hardly ever see him on the List Field."
"I have no use for him. But he doth do a fair job of administering the Test."
"When thou hast completed the Test, then there will be a great banquet held for thee!"
"Thou shalt receive thy tattoo, and shalt wear the pelt of thy totem animal."
"But we can discuss this upon thy return... if thou dost have the courage to take the Test of Knighthood..."
"Congratulations on having passed the Test of Knighthood! I greet thee as almost a brother."
"Thou must prepare for thy banquet."
"Seek out Lydia, and have her give thee the Tattoo of the Knight. Take none of her lip, mind!"
"Cellia the Furrier shall make thee the Cloak of Knighthood, if thou shalt take to her the body of thy totem animal."
"The banquet cannot begin until thou hast brought the meat from thy totem animal to Lucilla at the pub."
"She can then make the stew for the banquet."
"Thou art ready! Now thou must meet Lord Marsten at the Great Hall, in the south part of town."
"When thou hast finished thy work, then Lord Marsten can preside at thy banquet."
"Upon completing Knight's Test there is a ceremony wherein one's totem animal is chosen. It is always either a wolf, a leopard or a bear."
"What? Thou dost know who did betray Astrid to the Goblins! How dost thou know? Tell me now!"
"May I see this evidence?"
"What is this scroll? By the blazes of Furnace! This is proof!"
"This is proof that Lord Marsten hath been conspiring with the Goblins! That old goat!"
"He planned to destroy the Bears! And the Wolves! And to make himself King of the city!"
"Lord Marsten was the traitor, and that worm Spektor aided him! Death would be too kind for him!"
"It seems that Marsten sought to spare Astrid's life, but he failed her even as he betrayed his Knighthood."
"Marsten sought to betray Bull Tower! I will send a messenger to alert them immediately!"
"Do not worry -- we shall arrest these dogs!"
"Do not worry -- I shall personally see that Marsten is hunted down like the dog he is."
"Do not worry, Avatar! I shall order the Pikemen to place the traitors under arrest!"
"Do not worry, Avatar! I shall order the Pikemen to place the traitor under arrest!"
"Until thou dost bring proof, no one will believe thee, including myself!"
"I am not usually so talkative to an outsider. Thou shalt not find many in this town who welcome strangers!"
"A word of advice: If thou desirest to be accepted in Monitor, thou shouldst consider taking the Test of Knighthood."
"If thou art not a Knight, then thou art nothing!"
"Um, sorry. I mean, welcome to Monitor! My name is Cantra."
"I feel tired, but I am all right! My mind was full of awful dreams. Thou hast saved me! I shall remember thee always!"
"Hast thou decided to become a Knight yet? It is so exciting! I am practicing to become one myself."
"I am amazed to hear that Marsten hath betrayed us. I cannot believe it."
"To become a Knight of Monitor, thou must first ask permission of the Lord of Monitor."
"Marsten is the Lord of Monitor. One day he will give a banquet in mine honor to celebrate my becoming a Knight."
"If thou dost wish to take Knight's Test, thou must ask Lord Marsten for his permission."
"I have trained for a long time to become a Knight. There is nothing in the world so wonderful as being a Knight!"
"My father was a Knight, and a very good one. But he is dead now."
"When I turn fifteen, I can take the Test of Knighthood and become a grand warrior!"
"Everyone says that he might be alive, but it hath been weeks since he disappeared. I am old enough to face the truth."
"He was on patrol near Monitor. He told the pikemen that he had found something suspicious, and he went to look... and he never returned."
"It must have been the Goblins! I refuse to weep. But I vow that the first dozen Goblins I slay shall be for him!"
"I am strong. I am ready. The Goblins will be no match for me! I have trained well."
"If thou dost need a trainer, I can recommend one. Everyone says that Shazzana is the best trainer, but she is such a tyrant!"
"Ever since my father died, Caladin hath been my trainer. He is big and loud, and sometimes dumb, but he doth have a good heart."
"I have been training for the Test for mine entire life! Anything that thou needest to know, I can tell thee."
"It truly isn't so dangerous if thou dost know the secrets. And Shmed is nothing to worry about."
"What wouldst thou like to know?"
"But beware of Goblins! They come ever closer to the city of late. Even the bravest warrior can be slain if ambushed..."
"Do not look back, or the explosions will overcome thee. Move swiftly at first."
"Look upwards, as well as from side to side. There are clues that would otherwise escape thee. Be prepared to climb."
"Timing is essential. The fiery missiles can be outrun, if thou dost watch carefully."
"Use thine hands to search as well as thine eyes, for some things are invisible."
"Oh, he is the old man who administers the Test. I do not like him much. He looks at me oddly sometimes..."
"He will not let thee into the dungeon until thou dost give him the password. Only Lord Marsten can give the password to thee."
"Very well!"
"Oh, I hope that thou dost attempt the Knight's Test! And when thou dost, please come back to tell me about it!"
"Iieeeee.... Help me, Avatar! Help me! I can't escape... It will catch me and devour me!" *"Heelllp!"
"When thou hast become a Knight, I can be of service to thee. Until then, go thy way."
"When thou hast become a Knight, I can be of service to thee. Until then, be thou gone."
"Now that thou hast completed the Test, I must make a cloak for thee from the skin of the animal thou didst slay."
"When I am in my shop, bring me the body which thou didst obtain at Knight's Test."
"Give to me the body."
"Oooh, 'tis a large one."
"Return in one day. I shall have thy cloak by then."
"I cannot make thee a cloak without an animal's skin!"
"Return to Knight's Test, and bring me the slain wolf. Or else thou canst not achieve thy knighthood!"
"It is not time! I must have the full 24 hours!"
"And I know exactly where and how to use it..."
"It is ready."
"What didst thou expect?"
"I skin the carcasses myself."
"Other pelts I obtain from the northern trappers. They supply exotic furs which are rare here in Monitor -- especially Gwani pelts!"
"Now that thou hast completed the Test of Knighthood, thou must bring me the body of the animal thou didst slay."
"I shall make a cloak from its skin for thee."
"This is the cloak which thou must wear to the Ceremony of Initiation."
"Hast thou not heard stories of these creatures? They are terrible, ferocious, savage creatures!"
"They live in the snowlands of the far north, where the Goblins sometimes go to war on them."
"It is exceedingly rare for the Goblins to slay a Gwani, but when they do, their chieftain immediately lays claim to the carcass."
"Only the toughest Goblin chiefs wear the Gwani cloak. And only the toughest Knights can slay such a fearsome Goblin!"
"Luther brings me leopard pelts now and again, but mostly I must rely on the trappers to bring me exotic furs."
"The trappers live in the Great Northern Forest, at the foot of the Impassable Mountains."
"A trapper named Hazard sells me snow leopard pelts. Unfortunately, his men only make it as far south as Monitor a few times a year."
"Sometimes he even sends Gwani pelts! He likes hunting Gwani because it is such a challenge."
"Actually, when Luther doth go on the hunt he rarely catches anything!"
"Like all the other Bears, I think he prefers to hunt other warriors! He always bullies the strangers that come into town."
"Dost thou wish to buy one of my pelts or cloaks?"
"Some other time, perhaps."
"If thou wouldst come to my shop during the day, I could sell thee something..."
"Thou hast slain me! My blood spills away... all because of Pomdirgun, that betrayer!"
"Come nearer, that I may boast of my deeds before I die."
"That is right! I have been in Monitor longer than anyone else here! I came to the town many, many years ago!"
"A Moonshadian mage created a potion that enabled us to make our appearance Man-like. But it is addictive! I cannot live without it..."
"This leads to a passageway which will bring thee to the chief's village, hidden in a secret valley. No Man hath ever set foot there..."
"But be careful! There are many challenges for the unwary, and thou must survive to cleave Pomdirgun's head into two!"
"The passageway is sealed with an iron door, but thou shalt find the key tied around my neck."
"Curse thee, then! I shall take the secret of the Goblins with me to my grave..."
"Urrgh..."
"Thou hast found out my secret! Now, thou must die..."
"As thou hast now seen, the peril that faces Cantra doth go beyond merely being taken by the Goblins. Some foul thing doth possess her."
"Thou art mine only hope! Wilt thou please find my daughter Cantra and return her to me?"
"Oh, I thank thee from the bottom of mine heart for thy kindness and thy bravery!"
"To find Cantra, thou wilt need two things. The first of these is Cantra's practice sword. I can give that to thee now."
"This is the very same practice sword that Cantra used every day."
"Then mine only daughter Cantra shall soon be dead... or worse. Leave thou me now."
"Thou must find the crystal and gaze into it. Go to mine home. It is there, on the table."
"I beg of thee, for thy sake as well as the sake of my missing child, look into the glass."
"My daughter Cantra is missing! I know she would never run away from me, but I feel certain that the Goblins did not take her."
"Pray excuse my poor manners, stranger! I am Widow Harnna, the Healer of Monitor. I also sell vegetables from my garden."
"I am Widow Harnna, the Healer of Monitor. I also sell vegetables from my garden."
"How may I help thee now? Dost thou have need of healing, or dost thou wish to buy my vegetables?"
"Perhaps we may speak at another time. Mine husband is recently dead, and I am in mourning."
"How may I help thee? I am Widow Harnna, the Healer of Monitor. I also grow mine own food."
"How may I help thee now? Dost thou have need of healing, or dost thou wish to buy my vegetables?"
"I am glad that miserable traitor is no longer Lord of Monitor!"
"He is the Lord of the Town. Thou shouldst talk to him if thou hast not already."
"My beloved husband was slain while doing his duty, so I should have no complaints. Though Goblins have taken his life, they too shall die."
"But it hath been hard on Cantra. A girl at her age needs a father, dost not thou agree?"
"It is a comfort to know that my daughter is among the monks. Yet I have a foreboding..."
"Something is coming to me... a thought... a premonition..."
"Go! The monks have need of thee. My daughter hath need of thee!"
"I know that mine only daughter Cantra is now dead. Her spirit hath been haunting me. She is suffering and tormented."
"I thank thee! Perhaps now there is hope that my daughter shall return home to me."
"Cantra misses her father terribly. He hath been gone for many weeks..."
"She is nearly ready to become a Knight herself now. Her father would be so proud of her!"
"She is so serious about becoming a Knight. All she ever does is practice with her wooden sword."
"Dost thou believe in magic?"
"That is good, for what I have to show thee would befuddle the minds of most of this town's inhabitants."
"I would wager that there is some tiny bit of belief in thine heart, but if not, then it is time that thou wert properly enlightened."
"What I have to show thee should quell any doubts thou mayest yet have."
"Go to mine home. There thou shalt find a crystal ball. Gaze into it, and let thy mind be clear."
"Look into my crystal ball. Thou shalt find it on the table within mine home. Let thy mind be clear."
"I am so grateful that thou hast taken on the quest of saving my daughter. If I can help thee, ask."
"I am so happy my daughter hath been found, resurrected by the monks, and that thou hast restored her mind."
"I can temporarily restore thy body, but thou art suffering from an affliction that cannot easily be cured."
"Ah, thou hast spoken with Delphynia already! Dost thou have the Varo leaves?"
"Go thou quickly to Fawn and see if she doth have more of the leaves!"
"Now that I have the proper ingredients, it is a simple matter to cure thee."
"Hold thou still while I apply these directly upon thy tattoo..."
"There, 'tis done. Thine infection hath been healed."
"My cure can have only a temporary effect, for thou art enthralled by a powerful disease."
"In order for me to provide a permanent cure to thine affliction, thou must bring me five leaves of the Varo plant."
"If thou art ever in need of a healer, I shall be ready to assist thee."
"These leaves are now scarce, as the Varo grows only with abundant sunlight, and we have had clouded skies for many months."
"Go thou and see Delphynia, the horticulturist in Fawn. Perhaps she will have a supply of leaves."
"Didst thou speak with Lydia?"
"Indeed, the wench hath confessed to her crime!"
"Moreover, she hath paid for her treachery in blood. She is slain."
"Thy suffering came from no accidental affliction -- the venom which mixes with thy blood is not common."
"I strongly suspect that the source of thine infection is the tattoo thou hast been given."
"I know that Lydia must have given thee this tattoo, yet I find it difficult to believe she would poison a stranger."
"Thou shouldst have words with her, I think."
"I grow vegetables to feed the town, and sometimes to trade. What dost thou wish to purchase?"
"I sense that thou hast completed the Quest of the Three Artifacts."
"Thou shalt need three ancient and powerful artifacts to complete thy tasks. One of these is a helm. It seems very familiar to me..."
"But of course! It is the Helm of Monitor, which thou didst recover from the Goblins!"
"Thou shalt yet need that artifact in thy journeys."
"Thou mayest find this hard to believe, but my dreams tell me that thy sojourn in Fawn hath been of benefit to thy quest."
"Thy travels shall take thee north. Far north through caves that lie to the west... I can feel the cold wind blowing upon thee."
"I sense that now is the time to go north. All is ready for thy success."
"I see no more."
"What dost thou desire to know?"
"I must be about my duties. We must discuss this another time."
"The citizens of Monitor are all Knights, and they belong to one of three Commands: the Bears, Wolves, or Leopards."
"About which Command dost thou desire to inquire?"
"The Bears are strong and brave, and known for their triumphs in the arena. About whom dost thou wish to inquire?"
"'Tis said that he doth have a terrible temper. Luther loses control and simply begins swinging."
"A scroll? What dost thou mean?"
"I found a scroll, obviously written by Cantra, upon the body of a slain Pikeman. 'Twas thine husband I fear. He was betrayed..."
"I have told him to cease drinking that swill, but he insists. From a healer's point of view, that ale should be banned!"
"That foul imposter! I spit upon all goblins!"
"He is the guard at the south gate of Monitor. He hath a keen eye, despite his getting along in years."
"Flicken is one of the Bear Command. He may seem argumentative, but he is simply a good fellow, doing his job."
"'Tis simply beyond belief that she would have poisoned thee... yet thou dost say she confessed to her crime."
"It must have had something to do with that older sister of hers. Selene was taken by the Mages of Moonshade when a mere child."
"Lydia was so happy when her sister visited last month, after all these years. The two were inseparable."
"Selene must have ensorcelled her! How else could one explain how Lydia would commit the dishonorable crime of poisoning a stranger?"
"The Wolves are known for their cunning and stealth, preferring dexterity over brute strength. Brendann is their leader."
"About whom dost thou wish to inquire?"
"They say that Shmed was the traitor who sold our secrets to the Goblins."
"Mine heart tells me that they were wrong. Shmed was a coward, a fool, and a reprobate -- but not a traitor."
"Shmed hath retired early from his career as a soldier and now operates the Knight's Test -- "
"The dungeon where would-be knights test themselves. He is a good man for that job."
"The Leopards are the glue which holds this community together. We keep the Bears and Wolves from tearing each other apart."
"About whom dost thou wish to know?"
"I am ashamed that he is a Leopard! I hope that he doth rot in jail for a very long time!"
"I think he is worried about the thief. After all, Spektor is the town treasurer, so when money starts disappearing, everyone suspects him."
"I am glad that traitor Spektor hath been arrested!"
"Standarr is the armourer and blacksmith of our town. He is an honorable fighter and skilled craftsman. He also sells weapons and armour."
"I doubt that we shall have as many visitors as memorable as thou art come through town for quite a while!"
"I cannot keep track of all who come and go in this place. Thou shouldst talk to Simon, he is the innkeeper here."
"Of which type of place wouldst thou have me tell?"
"There are three cities in the Serpent Isles, and a small hamlet. Of which can I tell thee?"
"This is an inn along the Serpent Highway. It is said that one could obtain passage on ships from there."
"This is a dungeon located to the east of here that is said to be so hot that humans cannot survive within its cavernous depths."
"Follow the Serpent Road north and thou shalt come to it. But thou mayest not return."
"It is said that this forest lies beyond the swamp, but we have precious little contact with the people there."
"I do not think I can assist thee, but if I think of anything, I will let thee know!"
"What sort of items art thou inquiring about?"
"'Tis a pinecone! They are not normally found anywhere near here. They come from pine trees in the great forests to the north."
"It sounds as though thou art describing a pinecone. They come from trees far to the north of here."
"Perhaps thou shouldst speak with Brendann. He hath had the most -- ahem -- experience with women from outside the town."
"Oh, I know nothing of such frills. But Brendann would be well familiar with how to remove them from a woman."
"Why, that looks to be a funeral urn. In our city, it is our custom to burn our dead, and keep their remains in such urns."
"It sounds like the object thou art describing may be a funeral urn."
"I wonder... Caladin hath been angry because the ashes of his grandfather were missing. Perhaps that is what that urn contains."
"That strange apparatus doth look like nothing I have ever seen before! Could it be some kind of statue, or mayhaps a magical implement?"
"Fawn is known for its statuary, while Moonshade is the City of Mages. Perhaps thou shouldst inquire there."
"That sounds as if it may be some sort of instrument of mages. They may know of such things in Moonshade, but not here I fear."
"This type of rock is not common around here. Now if thou didst speak with Krayg, perhaps he could help thee..."
"He is fond of long walks, and sometimes he discovers odd rocks and plants. He brings me mandrake roots sometimes."
"Cellia here in town is a tanner and a furrier. This hat looks like it could be her work."
"Cellia is the tanner and furrier in town. I know nothing of such things."
"Surely, these belong to no one in this city. Krayg the provisioner might know who would sell something like these slippers."
"Perhaps thou mayest buy such things from Krayg, our town's provisioner. But I doubt that even he would carry such footwear."
"Thou shouldst ask Standarr the armourer about that."
"I once heard that the strange birds of the north lay blue eggs."
"Do not bring that thing near me! If thou dost desire to know its nature, ask of Templar..."
"...but never bring that object here again!"
"It sounds simply horrid. Templar may know of such things, but I do not."
"Simon is the barkeep at the inn. He knows more than anyone in town about exotic beverages."
"I know of no one that could help thee with this. I know nothing of beverages. Perhaps Lucilla knows something..."
"They appear to be coins from another town. Spektor would recognize them, I am certain."
"He is the town treasurer, and exchanges foreign coins for the good coins of Monitor."
"Spektor the treasurer is the expert on currency in the town of Monitor."
"That is a bear skull. Bears are commonly found in the south and west portions of our land."
"It sounds like thou art describing a bear skull. Bears are usually found in the south and west."
"Thou mightest ask Renfry if he hath encountered a body with such an injury lately."
"What a puzzling mystery! Thou shouldst ask Renfry, our undertaker, about it."
"That shield could belong to anyone in this town. Green and white are the colors of Monitor and its warriors."
"Thou shouldst inquire if anyone is missing a shield."
"Such a shield could belong to anyone in Monitor."
"This glowing rock must have come from some strange, unnatural place. I have never seen such a rock in any sort of place near here."
"I sense that it doth have unusual powers... incredible energies... hidden abilities..."
"I have never before heard of such an item. It sounds as though it might possess great power."
"Brendann is more well-acquainted with finery of ladies than a simple farm woman such as I, I am afraid."
"May I see the bottle?"
"That looks like the type of bottle that usually contains the ale Simon drinks. In Monitor, only he drinks that bitter Fawnish ale."
"How strange -- a bottle in the woods? Perhaps Templar can help thee. He is the expert on Goblins and their habits."
"I wish I could have been of more help to thee..."
"Is there anything else I can help thee with?"
"But wait... I feel the primal forces drawing near... I hear the voices of the Void..."
"I have a prophecy for thee, Avatar."
"Someone hath sent thee to me, eh? Well, I shall try to be of help to thee. What dost thou inquire about?"
"See! I told everyone that I could not be the traitor!"
"I am not even a drinking man. But Luther is known to imbibe to excess..."
"This bottle must be his! Luther is the traitor!"
"A bottle in the woods? And thou dost think that I dropped it?"
"'Tis due to mine injuries. Milk is all that I can tolerate. Boiled milk."
"He is merely following his leader, Caladin -- they all think the Wolves are their enemies!"
"But my prices are set, I'm afraid."
"We are all Knights in this town."
"In the City of Monitor, everyone is a Knight."
"I myself belong to the Command of the Wolf."
"Thou dost not know about the Commands? All Monitorians belong to one of three Commands: the Bears, the Wolves, or the Leopards."
"Well, that foolish leader of the Leopards is now dead. I wonder who will replace him?"
"They waste too many hours at the List Fields, fighting any who will challenge them."
"Luther is the worst! Thou didst hear him! He doth accuse me of being a traitor."
"Luther is the worst!"
"Oh, let us not discuss this again..."
"Very well..."
"He could not have been Goblin, for they never walk in the woods alone. Therefore... I think he must have been the Monitorian traitor!"
"The problem lies with the Bears and Wolves -- their bickering weakens us. So I had a plan! The Leopards would rule, and I would be King."
"And with the miracle weapons in our hidden arsenal, not even the Goblins could have taken this city..."
"What business dost thou have with me, stranger?"
"Oh, art thou bothering me again! No servant of Beast British is welcome here."
"Leave me with that dirty bottle! It doth look to have been lying in the woods for weeks..."
"I care not what thou didst find in the woods. 'Tis probably Goblin loot."
"There is no traitor in Monitor. Search thou not for evidence, for thou shalt not find it. Instead, help us to eradicate the Goblins!"
"Yes? Thou dost wish to say something to me?"
"I renounce Lord British and everything for which he stands. From this moment forward, I am his friend and servant no longer."
"Avatar! I cannot believe thy words!"
"How could thee renounce thy rightful liege?"
"Very well, Avatar. Do what thou must."
"Thou must feel better to have purged thyself of that burden. Thou wilt now be accepted by all of Monitor."
"Who doth know? Perhaps one day thou couldst become a true knight of Monitor. But only if thou passest the Test of Knighthood."
"Canst thou imagine the horrors of being devoured alive?! She was a masterful warrior, and deserved a finer death than this..."
"There is none to replace her, and certainly none able to reclaim the Helm of Monitor from the Goblins."
"'Tis a sacred item once belonging to the Goblins. It was what gave their ancient leader, Gurnordir, the power to build the Goblin Horde."
"When our forefathers killed Gurnordir, the Helm was claimed for Monitor. It hath since been worn by the Knight Champion."
"We need to reclaim it! Else, the Goblins shall again build their Horde and invade this great city."
"If thou dost wish to learn more of this evil race and its history, speak to Templar. He is an expert on the subject."
"We must smash the Goblins! Their chieftain must be slain, the Helm recovered, and their village pillaged."
"Certainly, thou didst force that cretin Simon to give thee some clue before his execution!"
"Go now, and regain the Helm!"
"But no one knows where the Goblin village lies. 'Tis an evil mystery..."
"I see no reason to discuss this matter with someone who is not even a Knight."
"As shall I...."
"What was that thou saidest, Brendann!"
"What??! Oh, nothing, merely mentioning that we shall all miss her presence. She was a fine warrior."
"I vow to war upon them until the end of the world! There shall be no end to my vengeance upon the Goblins."
"In the end, 'tis either Men or Goblins -- both of us cannot dwell here."
"Our people fled from their homeland when an evil tyrant united the kingdoms, and sought to force his philosophy upon them."
"So we set sail from Sosaria, and -- led beyond the Serpent Pillars by a mage named Erstam -- we came to the Serpent Isle."
"This land was deserted then, settled only by Goblins and covered with the ruins of a mysterious ancient Serpentine civilization."
"He was an evil man, and Knight and Mage alike rebelled against his tyranny. So our ancestors fled here, and founded the Three Cities."
"British was his name. Lord British, he called himself. But we call him Beast British!"
"What?! I should have known that evil tyrant would yet live! Beware -- no servant of the Beast shall be aided by any Knight of Monitor!"
"Thou dost agree, since thou dost not speak well of the Beast! Aye, a tyrant if there ever were one."
"Three great cities were founded by those who fled the tyrant: Moonshade, Fawn and Monitor."
"Thou dost see them across the land, left behind by the evil creatures which once dwelled in this place."
"That fellow Krayg could tell thee more. He is most fond of taking long walks in distant places, and often sees strange sights."
"Certainly..."
"I am the Lord of Monitor, the City of Knights."
"There are three bodies of Knights in the city. No Command is better than another, for all warriors are equal."
"As the leader of the Leopards, this is my year to rule Monitor."
"We are the peacemakers. The Bears and the Wolves always quarrel, but we stop them from wringing each others' necks."
"We bring balance to the community. 'Tis not always glorious to be a Leopard, but we are proud to do our duty."
"Every citizen of the town must become a Knight of Monitor, or be banished when they reach the age of fifteen."
"The Knights are organized into three war bands, which are known as Commands -- the Bears, the Wolves, and the Leopards."
"As thou hast no doubt noted, our tattoos mark us according to our Command."
"The Bears have saved this city again and again. They never forget that we live under siege, that the Goblins could always attack."
"The city walls were constructed by the Bears. They are tough, strong, powerful warriors. Caladin is their lord."
"The prosperity of Monitor is due to the foresight of the Wolves. They have forced us to reach out to our fellow Man."
"The Wolves repaired the ancient highway, and added new roads to link the Three Cities. They built the guard towers."
"Brendann is their lord. The Wolves are smart, preferring cunning over brute force."
"Knight Champion is the most revered title in Monitor -- more than Lord! To be Knight Champion is to be the finest warrior in the land."
"To hone their skills, our Knights meet daily on the List Field to spar. Thus, they demonstrate their martial prowess."
"From success in tournament and in battle, the Knight Champion is determined. He or she is privileged to wear the Helm of Monitor."
"Thou canst hardly miss the List Field -- 'tis the walled field in the south part of town."
"There is no shortage of opponents, especially if thou dost go there in the late morning or afternoon."
"Even strangers like thyself are welcome to spar. 'Tis good preparation for the Test of Knighthood."
"Lydia must have been part of Shmed's secret conspiracy. But that no longer matters -- both of the Goblin spies are dead!"
"The Goblins shall no more steal our secrets, eh!"
"I must apologize to thee for the attack upon thee by the traitor, Shmed."
"I did not believe that there was a traitor, but this evidence proves it."
"I do not care for this talk of traitors. Who would betray us to the Goblins? No man could be that insane."
"One cannot be born a Knight, nor can the title be bestowed for money or influence. Only a worthy warrior can become a Knight."
"'Tis an honor to become a Knight of Monitor, yet 'tis also a heavy responsibility. There are many enemies in the land."
"The dungeon lies north of town, in the mountains. At the entrance, a Knight named Shmed awaits the hopeful warriors."
"He can explain the rules of the Test to thee, or thou couldst speak with Caladin. 'Tis Caladin's duty to instruct Knight candidates."
"One cannot shirk one's responsibilities after becoming a Knight. Thy Command might call thee to Tower duty, or to scout the Goblins."
"There is nothing worse than deserting thy Command. In times of crisis, thy place is here in Monitor."
"Congratulations! Thou dost not even need to tell me. I can see that thou hast triumphed in the dungeon."
"Now thou must prepare for thy banquet, at which thou wilt become a Knight of Monitor."
"Thou wouldst be a poor Knight without the Mark. Seek out Lydia, for she will give thee the Tattoo of Knighthood."
"In the dungeon, thou didst slay the animal which the Ashes of Gurnordir did send to thee."
"Now bring the animal's body to Cellia the Furrier. From the carcass, she shall make thy Cloak of Knighthood."
"The traditional meal of the banquet is a stew made from the meat of the animal thou didst slay."
"Bring the meat to Lucilla in the pub, and she shall prepare the feast."
"Thou art ready, young Knight! Go to the banquet hall in one hour. I shall meet thee there."
"When thou hast finished thy work, then thy knighting can occur."
"What art thou talking about? Thou dost know nothing! Leave at once, or I shall call the Pikemen!"
"I ordered him jailed. We are very strict here in Monitor."
"I understand thou hast spoken with this villain."
"Then explain to me thy friend's actions. Is he a sorcerer?"
"Then he can remain in jail until he rots. I have no love of mages. I will not abide their pranks under any circumstances."
"Then how did he appear in the middle of the funeral? Doth he fly?"
"Well, these are mysterious times. Strange occurrences have become usual..."
"I see! And the urn which thou didst return to Caladin -- it was exchanged for thy friend!"
"Indeed. The storms have been known to magically displace their victims."
"Art thou daft? I have already given thee the key. Thy friend is locked in the jail. It is in the northeast part of town."
"If thou wilt vouch for thy friend's future behavior, then I shall let him go free."
"Very well. Keep thine eye on him. We do not want people popping in and out of our city like this!"
"Here is the key to thy friend's jail cell. Set him free."
"Then he must remain in his cell."
"If only thou wert a Knight! Then I could let thee vouch for thy friend, and let him free."
"But thou art merely a stranger here..."
"This is a magnificent building. It serves as both a seat of government where important meetings are held, and as a museum of sorts."
"Spektor, Caladin, Brendann and myself meet at noon every day to make all the decisions involved in ruling the town."
"There are many fine exhibits in our museum. Thou shouldst especially note the artifacts captured from the Goblins..."
"Oh, show courage! Thou dost look like thou mightest lose thy last meal!"
"But why hast thou come to our town? What is thy business here?"
"Now, I do not agree with all this talk of a spy in our midst. Do not let these rumors divide our city, Caladin."
"Yet there was that other suspicious stranger, the fat sage..."
"Whom I threw out of town..."
"And that scholar -- a woman with fine bone structure, but a little too old to pleasure me..."
"Could he be speaking of Iolo's wife, the good lady Gwenno?"
"And do not forget the enchanter who appeared in the midst of the funeral services for our deceased Pikemen!"
"Warriors, be still! There is no spy in Monitor, and I refuse to hear more of this!"
"Oh, darling! Let us meet in my bedroom..."
"What can I do for thee, dear?"
"My name is Lucilla. Is there anything I can do for thee? Anything at all?"
"Hello again!"
"This is all so confusing. Lord Brendann is certain that there must be a traitor, and the Wolves are united behind him."
"Yet I have also heard that there is certainly no traitor, and that we should not indulge in hysteria..."
"Um... no single person, actually. I have merely heard it said in conversation. In a tavern, one hears everything."
"'Tis a very dirty bottle. Thou didst find this in the woods?"
"Ah! 'Tis one of Simon's ale bottles. I order them specially for him, as only he can stand the taste."
"Fawnish ale -- phew! A horrible brew."
"If the bottle is of an uncommon type, then perhaps that would be a clue."
"My name is Lucilla."
"Please come by the pub sometime."
"And I would love to chat further, but I do not speak with strangers. My standards are very high, and thou art not a Knight of Monitor."
"If thou wouldst return when we are open, perhaps I could serve thee food or drink..."
"I enjoy all the attention..."
"I can hardly speak of the Champion Knight without remembering Astrid's foul death at the hands of the Goblins."
"I am so glad that thou hast recaptured the Helm of Monitor. Thou dost make a fine Champion Knight in thine own right."
"I fear that there is none worthy to fill her shoes as Champion Knight!"
"Except, perhaps, thyself? I must believe that thou hast had thy share of conquests in thy time..."
"Monitor is not the town it once was. Our ancestors founded a settlement built on the Principle of Courage."
"I wish a new Champion Knight would arise, one who can not only retrieve the Helm of Monitor, but also right the wrongs in this town!"
"Could that person be thee? I would like it to be so."
"All the Knights think about is fighting! And who do they fight? The Goblins? No! They prefer to spar with one another at the List Field!"
"Luther is the worst. Oh, how I hate him!"
"What a buffoon! He thinks every woman in this town wants him, but I find him repulsive!"
"To prove his prowess, he torments the weakest Knights and challenges them to meet him on the List Field."
"And when they lose -- which they must, since Luther is such a powerful brute -- he gloats over them."
"They say that that new shield of his doth have special powers, so that now he is truly invincible!"
"Well, I say if it is magical, then force him to not use it! Monitorians do not use magic weapons or armour..."
"But no one can tell Luther anything."
"Dost thou not know that men are scum? Yet we cannot leave them alone..."
"Wouldst thou like to know more about the men of Monitor?"
"Avoid Brendann -- he sees women as trophies, to be won and then set on a shelf. He is shallow and insincere."
"Templar is very attractive, I think. But Caladin is a brute, and Luther is a clod!"
"'Tis just as well -- there are no great lovers in this place!"
"Why is it that a woman must have a man? I have looked and looked, and I have not yet found the one for me."
"Dost thou find me beautiful? I admit I love the attention! But I have never found the right man for me..."
"But I sense that thou art somehow different, milord."
"Listen, Spektor and I truly have nothing together. Honestly, 'tis nothing."
"Wouldst thou like to meet later?"
"I cannot wait."
"Oh. Be that way, then. There are plenty of others who are interested in me!"
"If I do say so myself, I am a master of cooking poultry. Or as they say..."
"Breasts and thighs, breasts and thighs. And which dost thou prefer, milord? But do not answer yet..."
"If I cannot succeed in the bedroom, I might as well try in the kitchen! Homely women make good cooks, they say..."
"Thou knowest -- the quests to prove that thou art fit to bear thy Knighthood..."
"Like when thou didst retrieve the Helm of Monitor from that vile Pomdirgun."
"Surely, a fine young warrior like thyself dost plan to partake in the Quest to retrieve the Helm of Monitor?"
"If only we could learn the secret of their hidden camp! But it remains a mystery..."
"Too dangerous for a coward like thyself? And I thought better of thee..."
"Surely, thou dost know Spektor the Financier?"
"I must be going. Pressing town business, that sort of thing."
"And it is so seldom that we are able to talk! Be sure to give my greetings to Lord Marsten."
"I shall!"
"Hast thou changed thy mind about meeting?"
"Suit thyself."
"The time is not right. I cannot see thee now. Another time, my love..."
"Very well, I shall bare my soul to thee."
"I suspected that thou knewest when thou didst catch Spektor and I together that time. But we could not fool thee..."
"Spektor and I were lovers. Canst thou believe it? Yet there was something appealing about that man..."
"Despite my conscience, I have kept his guilty secret for these many months. It casts filth upon my soul. I am ashamed."
"This is so embarrassing. To think that I could have had any man in this town, and yet I gave mine heart to... Spektor!"
"A Knight who had scarce drawn his sword in many moons..."
"Spektor played a key part in Lord Marsten's plan to destroy the Bears and Wolves, so that the Leopards could rule Monitor!"
"They had a secret cache of money and weapons hidden somewhere in the mountains west of town."
"I do not know what else they hid there, but Spektor said that they had the power to someday rule all of Serpent Isle!"
"A ring so pretty must be intended for a loved one. Perhaps a ring of marriage or engagement."
"Now that thou hast completed the Knight's Test, thou must now bring me the meat for thy banquet stew."
"I would love to converse with thee, friend Avatar. But this is the hour when Andral sculpts my likeness."
"What art thou, a moron? Canst thou not see that the artist is at work? Andral is sculpting me."
"When my bust is complete, then my fame will be perfect and they shall surely proclaim me Knight Champion!"
"Hmpf! Art thou a fighter? Thou dost not look like a fighter to me!"
"More like someone to cook Luther's meals! Har!"
"Thou dost look like someone to carry Luther's water buckets! Har!"
"Hello, little fighter! Step on any ants today?"
"Look at the new Knight! Thou dost certainly look fetching with thy tattoo. Hah!"
"Now that thou hast bested me on the field of battle, I am thy friend. What can I do for thee?"
"The Goblins did not ambush that patrol without help. If Lord Marsten doth not recognize this, then he is blind as well as brainless."
"It doth not take a wizard to untangle this skein. Who among us acts strangely, doth do things in secret, and avoids his knightly duties?"
"So what do I care if thou didst find garbage in the woods?"
"Place it not in my face! That bottle is filthy..."
"Besides, I do not drink that brew. 'Tis Fawnish ale. A bitter brew!"
"No doubt the bottle belongs to that traitor, Krayg."
"I am Luther! I am a Bear and a trainer of unequalled strength. It is my destiny to become the next Knight Champion of Monitor!"
"I am the greatest fighter in Monitor! But I sense that thou art uncertain. Dost thou disagree?"
"I shall gladly prove it to thee -- on the List Field! Meet me there in the morning,..."
"...but not too early. I like my sleep. The ninth hour should be sufficient."
"Good for thee."
"As a Knight of the Order of the Bear, I am charged with defending Monitor at all times."
"Often I am called upon by Caladin to lead patrols outside the city walls, or to single-handedly scout the wilderness. I am very brave."
"We are the hope of Monitor, the only defense against the Goblins. The Leopards are hopeless, and the Wolves too smart for their own good."
"If thou dost become a Knight of Monitor -- which is highly unlikely by the looks of thee -- thou shalt not be a Bear."
"The Ashes of Gurnordir do not select puny weaklings for our Command."
"Ignorant oaf! The Ashes are consecrated to the ideal of Prowess -- to the biggest, strongest, bravest warriors!"
"In the Test of Knighthood, it is the Ashes which shall show thee thy totem animal. By the blood."
"But why am I speaking of this to thee? If thou didst attempt the Test, it would surely kill thee."
"...if thou knowest what I mean, aye?"
"One day I shall be Lord of the Bears, when Caladin is at last seen for the pathetic coward that he truly is."
"Then I shall challenge the Goblins to a final battle, and use their pathetic skulls for the sharpening of my blade!"
"Now that I am Lord of the Bears, Monitor is at last safe from invasion."
"How darest thou call me a bully! That little whore Lydia must have put thee up to this..."
"I am glad that she is dead, the bitch!"
"So, thou and she are teaming against me, aye? Spreading lies and rumors? Poisoning my reputation?"
"Braggart! Who art thou calling a braggart? Thou art a snivelling worm!"
"That cold fish Spektor must have coaxed thee to this. He hath been jealous of my manliness for many moons..."
"He knows that the women prefer me to him, and he schemes against me!"
"Why, I should rip thine head off and feed it to the pigs!"
"Lucilla said what?! She finds me repulsive? Thou dost lie, it is a filthy lie..."
"I will have thine head on a pike for spreading such tales!"
"Many thanks for returning my shield to me, friend."
"No, that doth not look like my shield. I do not believe I have ever seen that shield before in my life."
"I have not lost my shield. Thou art mistaken."
"Besides, I have this new shield -- which, by the way, is a family heirloom. Thank thee very much."
"So, thou hast heard of my new shield! No one hath ever seen the like of it before. It is so light, yet blows seem to bounce off of it..."
"What did he say?!"
"What didst thou say?!"
"No, I will not! This is my shield, and it hath been mine since my father -- a great Knight of Monitor -- passed it on to me!"
"If thou dost call me a thief again, then thou art calling me a liar -- and dishonoring the name of my father!"
"I could not accept money from a friend!"
"Hah! A fine shield like this is not for sale. It is a family heirloom, after all."
"The other Knights might grovel after money, but not I! I am no Spektor!"
"Thou couldst use a warrior like myself, to guard thee against thine enemies. With me on hand, nothing could harm thee!"
"But alas, my duty as a Knight keeps me here in Monitor. The Goblins are a constant threat, even though thou hast slain their king."
"But alas, my duty as a Knight keeps me here in Monitor. The Goblins are a constant threat."
"So! Thou hast discovered me!"
"Yes, I poisoned thee, but I will not say who did instruct me to do so!"
"There is no antidote, so thou canst look forward to a long and painful death!"
"I spit upon thee, pawn of the Demon British!"
"Begone with thee, stranger. No one who hath not passed the Test of Knighthood is worthy of my time."
"As loathsome as Luther is, perhaps he doth have a point. Krayg doth indeed take long walks in the woods, most strangely..."
"But a man cannot be convicted simply for strange habits! We must have evidence..."
"Look around thee! Dost thou see the needles, the vials of ink, and the sketches!"
"Look closer. Dost thou see the patterns which adorn my body, the swirls of color? Each doth have its meaning..."
"I am the artist who creates tattoos."
"I am Lydia, the tattoo artist."
"I learned the trade from my father. Counting myself, there have been twelve generations of tattooists in our family."
"As the tattooist, it is my privilege to grant the first tattoo to any warrior who completes the Test of Knighthood."
"Lord Marsten sometimes authorizes me to give additional tattoos, but only when the recipient hath earned them through Courage or Valor."
"Artistry is something that one is born with -- it cannot be learned or imitated. As I was born with the talent, I could not deny my duty."
"As thou canst see, I have had much practice on myself. As the tattooist, I can have as many tattoos as I desire..."
"My body is covered with tattoos! My mother tattooed my back and other spots I could not reach comfortably."
"She was a courageous Knight! I miss her very much..."
"Others will tell thee that my mother died in a battle with road bandits, but I know better. She had lost the will to live!"
"Her heart was broken, ever since that Warlock from Moonshade stole her oldest daughter!"
"That is the City of Mages, to the east on the Isle of Beyond. It is a depraved, indulgent, undisciplined place."
"No warrior could ever feel comfortable in such a setting. They care nothing for Duty and Courage -- only pleasure!"
"I do not know his name. The evil wizard travels throughout the Serpent Isle, in search of children to steal for the mage school."
"Any infant with potential is taken in the dead of night, and a white stone is left in its place."
"My sister Selene was a very beautiful girl. She was four years older than I, and I thought she was so mature!"
"She was only twelve when she was taken, so she never had the chance to pass the Test of Knighthood... Selene doth have no tattoos."
"I have often wondered about her life among the Mages, learning spells and bewitching her enemies. I would give anything to see her again!"
"Well, thou knowest... private places!"
"Milady, I would be very interested in seeing all of thy tattoos. Perhaps we could step into..."
"I am not on display, sir! Thou shouldst not think that any lout can see the entire gallery."
"Sorry, milady."
"Later, perhaps... handsome stranger."
"Only Lord Marsten can approve one for a Tattoo of Valor. They are won for great deeds done on the field of battle."
"Our bravest warriors have many tattoos. Caladin and Brendann, rivals in all things, have more tattoos than anyone else in Monitor!"
"Caladin wears his on those brawny arms of his, while Brendann's are kept in more discreet locations..."
"These swirls and dots may seem random, but each has its meaning. A trained artist can read thy past by thy tattoos."
"Do not stare so closely at my tattoos! I wish my secrets to be mine own."
"Thou hast earned the right to wear the Knight's Tattoo. Without it, one cannot be inducted into one's Knighthood."
"Since thou didst slay the Wolf in the Test, thou art slated to receive the Mark of the Wolf."
"Art thou ready to obtain thy tattoo?"
"We shall now begin the process. This will hurt, but as a warrior, thou art accustomed to suffering."
"Will it hurt! Thou art not fit to be a Knight of Monitor."
"Thou dost shame all womankind by thy cowardice."
"Come back when thou art ready to be a man!"
"Then perhaps later."
"If thou wilt come to my shop when I am at work, I shall be happy to grant thee thy Mark of Knighthood."
"So! Thou hast discovered me!"
"Yes, I poisoned thee, but I will not say at whose insistence it was done!"
"There is no antidote, so thou canst look forward to a long and painful death!"
"I spit upon thee, pawn of the Demon British!"
"Yes, Fiend British!"
"I hate that monster! He represents all that is evil!"
"Since the poison hath not killed thee, I see that I must do the job myself!"
"Thou canst not take me to the dungeons without a fight!"
"I say, I say who is that? Art thou a stranger?"
"No, no, I do not speak with strangers... I only care to speak with my fellow Knights."
"Pardon me for not recognizing thee, Sir Knight. I be an old man, and mine eyesight is not what it once was."
"What? What? Oh, 'tis thee again."
"Flame? Oh, yes, we keep the fires going constantly."
"Oh. As thou canst tell, mine hearing is not what it once was. 'Tis the roar of the fires which hath done it..."
"I am Renfry, Knight and Cremator."
"'Tis mighty curious for thee to know so little of our customs -- art thou certain thou art a Knight?"
"Then thou hast spent too much time on the list fields, and not enough time pondering the traditions of our people. Pay attention!"
"I don't speak with strangers!"
"In the Crypts of the Dead are urns filled with the ashes of generations of Knights. The Ashes of the Dead are our heritage."
"Be reverent when thou art in the presence of the Machine of Cremation, as it represents Death itself."
"Careful with what thou wouldst put near the thing! It hath the capacity to destroy practically any object in the world!"
"If thou dost not do this, the ghost of the dead will torment thee until thy dying day!"
"They are just beyond the curtain in the crematorium."
"Andral, our town sculptor, makes them."
"Had something to do with that sage who was in town recently. Andral will know more about it. Talk to him."
"I have a perfect memory for names. 'Twas Badwin, I think. A very large man, with a hooded companion."
"We are a community of Knights. For us, the world is a harsh place in which only the valiant survive."
"We do not trust magic -- thou couldst not sell a magical weapon in this town at any price! Yet there are powers greater than mere magic..."
"And no one can explain the Serpent Gate, yet we have built our city above it."
"I can hardly do justice to the tale -- thou shouldst speak to Lord Marsten."
"Gurnordir was our greatest foe! Do his ashes stand for hatred, and thus the animals are produced to try to slay us?"
"A stone platform hidden in the Crypts..."
"By legend, the platform is called the Gate of the Serpent. But a gate to where? To what?"
"For thy service to Monitor and to the community of Knights I shall pay thee for thy trouble."
"I thank thee for cremating that once proud warrior."
"Dost thou carry a pikeman's body for cremation?"
"Ah, place it there on the trapdoor on top of the Cremator. I will pay thee after thou hast performed the last rites for the fallen one."
"Ah, place them one at a time on the trapdoor on top of the Cremator." *"I will pay thee after each one receives the final rites."
"Thou dost not carry a pikeman! I can only pay thee for bringing me the bodies of fallen knights. Only they deserve such respect..."
"I deduce that the severed hand found in thy possession is not dead. What manner of magic could do this? I have never seen its like."
"We have not had many strangers in our town lately. Let me introduce myself. I am Shazzana, a Knight of the Leopards."
"I am not one to waste time with words. What is thy business with me, Knight?"
"Thou hast killed the Goblin King Pomdirgun. How wonderful!"
"I understand thou didst determine that the traitor in our town was Simon. I am certain thou didst deal properly with him."
"What business is this of thine? If thou dost wish to train with me, then meet me at the List Field at noon."
"If not, then be on thy way."
"I am one of the best fighters in this town. This is why all of the Knights desire to be trained by me."
"I fight harder than any man or woman alive. I commonly win, but when I do not, the victor knows that they were in a terrific fight."
"There are few who can match me! The secret is to be in control. A Knight who doth lose his temper in battle is a defeated Knight."
"The Bears say that strength is the key. Well, I can strike before those over-muscled brutes can react!"
"The Wolves pride themselves on cunning. Fools! They cannot think past my blinding sword strikes."
"Since thou hast questioned my skill, I challenge thee to a match. Dost thou accept?"
"Meet me upon the List Field at noon, and I shall teach thee to appreciate my skill with a blade."
"If thou dost not show, then I shall know thee for the coward thou art."
"Thou art not worthy of thy Knighthood..."
"I am certain I could also teach thy friend a thing or two..."
"Art thou referring to me?"
"I believe she was referring to thee!"
"I believe it was thee she was referring to, Avatar."
"I can train anyone."
"The Wolves and the Bears are full of dreams. We Leopards are realistic. We live one day at a time."
"The Wolves have this grand scheme for uniting the Three Cities into a commonwealth, united by trade routes."
"How can this be, when the Goblins threaten our very existence? The Wolves are simply not practical."
"The Bears believe in a strong defense, I will give them that! But we cannot hide behind Monitor's walls -- we must seek out our enemies."
"Our highest priority should be to raid that hidden Goblin camp, and destroy that evil race!"
"We must take back the Helm of Monitor, and avenge the death of Astrid!"
"War is the ultimate test for any Knight. This is how one doth test one's inner strength."
"War is both holy and obscene, beautiful and yet hideous. I love it. I am very good at it."
"Astrid was a magnificent Knight Champion! Even though she was a Bear and I a Leopard, we were boon companions."
"The Helm was originally taken from the old goblin king, Gurnordir, in the days of the Goblin Horde."
"It is an ancient and powerful talisman, endowed with the Principle of Courage. Thus, it can only be worn by the bravest of warriors."
"Now thou art the Champion Knight of Monitor. It was an honor I had wished for myself. But I must admit thou dost wear it well."
"Astrid was such a person. When I become the Knight Champion and the Helm is recovered, I shall wear it in Astrid's memory."
"If the Goblins refuse to concede that this territory belongs to us, then what else shall we do? Sue for peace?!"
"We must wage war against them until they are all dead. This is the nature of the world. So be it."
"It was horrible! I was a wolf! I know I was! I saw myself in a reflection on a puddle of water!"
"But I don't understand. How didst thou survive the Knight's Test? We fixed the place with traps to be absolutely fatal!"
"I did not want to do it. She seduced me into trying to kill thee! Yet even now, I cannot betray her..."
"But I don't understand. How didst thou survive the Knight's Test? We fixed the place with traps to be absolutely fatal!"
"I did not want to do it. She seduced me into trying to kill thee! Yet even now, I cannot betray her..."
"Hello again."
"My name is Shmed. I am a Knight of Monitor, at thy service..."
"But thou already knowest!"
"I am the Knight in charge of the Test of the Knights."
"The Test takes place here, beyond that locked door."
"All Monitorians must pass the Test before they can be granted their Knighthood."
"It is a test which one must endure alone, without companions."
"If thou dost wish to take the Test, thou must speak with Lord Marsten and obtain his permission."
"Dost thou wish to test thy mettle by taking the Test of Knighthood?"
"Come to the building just south of the entrance to Knight's Test. There I can properly attend to thee before the test."
"Pray tell, what be the password?"
"Courage is the Soul of Life."
"Steel thyself! If thou dost make it through to the other side, then all will know that thou art worthy to be a Knight of Monitor."
"Thy friends must wait for thee here."
"I cannot change the rules of the Test. Therefore, I cannot admit thee, stranger."
"Harrumph! Perhaps when thou hast found a bit of courage!"
"If thou dost meet me at the Place of the Test, thou canst take the Test of Knighthood."
"Follow the Kings' Road north of Monitor, then take the trail leading west."
"I can be found there everyday, from dawn until late in the afternoon."
"So, thou hast found me out? Well, to the blazes with it all!"
"Unusual taste, eh? I dare say I am the only one outside of the city of Fawn who drinks it."
"I would share more with thee, but I think that thou dost not appreciate it. Besides, I must clean this foulness!"
"How may I help thee? My name is Simon."
"I am the innkeeper of The Sleeping Soldier, Monitor's inn. If thou dost need a bed, I can certainly accommodate thee."
"Or if thou dost care to join me in a bottle of ale, I will gladly share with thee."
"'Tis an old inn. As old as Monitor itself. I can gladly accommodate thee if thou dost wish."
"No one knows where their home is. Templar is our local Goblin expert, so thou shouldst speak with him."
"Since the death of Astrid, some say that there is a traitor amongst us -- selling our secrets to the Goblins."
"I have mine own suspicions. Take a close look at Krayg. He seems to spend a lot of time in the woods on long walks... alone."
"The cost is 5 monetari per person. Wouldst thou like a room for the night?"
"Here is thy key."
"I do believe thou dost not have enough monetari. Please return when thou dost have the appropriate amount."
"Please return when thou dost have the appropriate amount."
"Some other time, then."
"I can give thee a room if thou wilt come to mine inn when I am open!"
"Yes, thou mayest drink thy fill of ale here. But I am particularly fond of mine own personal brand of ale. Have a drink?"
"Suit thyself, then."
"The only two memorable visitors we have had -- besides thyself -- were a fat sage and a scholar."
"Thou shouldst also speak with Andral, the sculptor. He and the sage spent many hours in conversation, here at the inn."
"I believe he went northeast from here, towards the little hamlet of Sleeping Bull."
"Now what was that man's name? It was a simple name, unpleasant sounding and mean..."
"Batlin, that was it. He called himself the Sage Batlin."
"Oh, and did I mention that he had several underlings travelling with him? There was a warrior, a sailor, and a hooded man."
"Standarr had a disagreement with this warrior. I'd wager he could tell thee a tale or two about him!"
"A swarthy man who was called Deadeye. He had the look of a pirate about him. Shazzana spent a bit of time with him as I recall."
"She said she was researching the land and seemed anxious to learn all about Serpent Isle. Spektor dealt with her, mostly."
"Gwenno! It must have been Gwenno!"
"Yes, I believe that was her name..."
"Of course, this was before the Storms. No sailor will brave these dangerous waters now."
"Praise Virtue! This means she is alive and well! I thank thee, sir, for this woman is my wife!"
"Very kind woman, she was, sir."
"Her name was Gwenno. She left here for the east, anxious to learn the wisdom of the Xenkan Monks."
"Of course, this was before the Storms. No sailor will brave these dangerous waters now."
"Hmmm. I cannot imagine... oh yes, I remember. I was taking a walk in that area. I must have been careless and dropped the bottle."
"That is correct. I was taking a walk. Sometimes I want to exercise and enjoy the fresh air."
"Yes. What is wrong with that?"
"What about them? They did not bother me. We cannot let them control our lives!"
"Is that the area they believe is the Goblin rendezvous? I do not believe it. I have never seen Goblins there."
"So thou dost go there often?"
"Er, no, not at all. I only meant I did not see any Goblins then."
"Mine instincts tell me this man is lying, Avatar!"
"So I have been found out! Well, to the blazes with it all!!"
"Gladly! Thou hast come to thy senses..."
"The Rangers of Moonshade make wine. Perhaps it is from there that this wine thou dost speak of hath come."
"Very well, I have been found out. Listen to my secrets, brute, for I must confess all with my dying breath..."
"Yes, Marsten and I did plot with the Goblins -- but we did think to cheat them in the end! Then the Leopards would have ruled Monitor."
"And it was I who stole from the town treasury, for we needed the money to acquire a cache of powerful weapons -- explosive weapons..."
"Very well, I have been found out. There is no point in denying my guilt any longer. It was I who stole the money from the treasury."
"I was in league with Lord Marsten, who schemed to become King of Monitor. The Bears and Wolves would have been powerless!"
"Yes, how may I help?"
"I am Spektor, treasurer of Monitor."
"Frankly, I do so many things. I am Monitor's treasurer. Lord Marsten may order things done, but I must find a way to pay for it all!"
"I handle the books and the paperwork, and I'm the local money exchanger. I also collect and administer the taxes."
"Frankly, I'm not much of a fighter, even though I am a Knight."
"Our Pikemen patrol the major roads connecting Monitor with Fawn and Sleeping Bull, and man the guard towers."
"In better times, caravans travelled these routes, and we collected a fat reward from merchants eager for our protection."
"With the Goblin King slain, perhaps the roads will again be filled. But the storms also discourage travel..."
"But now, the rumors of a gathering Goblin invasion have scared the travellers off the roads! Frankly, this is nonsense."
"The Knights of Monitor have repelled such Goblin aggressions successfully in the past and they shall do so again."
"Well, I dutifully passed the Test of Knighthood when I was fifteen. But frankly, not everyone was born to be a Knight. I admit it."
"Perhaps thou shouldst consider taking the Test of Knighthood. It is not so difficult, with proper training."
"We citizens are so much nicer to thee when thou art a Knight, rather than a stranger. We distrust outsiders."
"Yes, frankly, 'tis true. But I do not like to talk about it."
"Someone in Monitor is a thief. Money is being taken from the treasury. 'Tis a mystery."
"Please keep this to thyself. Only a few select individuals are aware of this crime. Frankly, we do not want a panic."
"I tire of this entire system. Wolves! Bears! Leopards! Why can we not be united, rather than divided into Commands?"
"As for the Wolves and the Bears, they are like children. "
"Yes, I do say that a lot, do I not? I apologize. 'Tis a bad habit. Frankly... er, to tell the truth, I should stop."
"There was a woman here a while ago who spent much time in the Hall of Monitor, examining our museum display. Very friendly."
"She left here for the east. To study at the library on Monk Isle, as I recall."
"Frankly, 'tis a mysterious place. I do not know much about it, except the legend that wise monks dwell there."
"The only way to go there is by ship, but there are no sailors here -- the storms have discouraged them."
"Perhaps thou couldst hire a captain in Fawn -- which is the city of fishermen -- or at the hamlet of Sleeping Bull."
"Fawn is a coastal town filled with the worshippers of beauty. Frankly, I find those people to be a little too superficial for my liking."
"The inn there is a very old establishment, built in the days before the founding of the Three Cities. The village is built around the inn."
"Since it is such a crossroads, thou canst often meet all sorts of interesting folk there. And it is the direct link to the City of Mages."
"A place where I shall never be seen! I distrust magic in all its forms."
"Moonshade is on the Isle of Beyond, which is across the channel from Sleeping Bull. Thou wouldst need a boat to journey there."
"'Tis actually quite easy. Do not believe what the Knights will tell thee. Frankly, if I can pass it, anyone can!"
"If thou desirest to know more, I would suggest speaking with Caladin. He is the instructor for young Knight candidates."
"Also, thou couldst speak with little Cantra. She is preparing to take the Test next month, and is full of information."
"What!? What dost thou mean? Art thou calling me a traitor? I may not be much of a fighter, but I can defend myself!"
"Marsten is the traitor? This is too incredible to believe. Hast thou proof?"
"I must see this. Might I see the evidence?"
"Then I can do nothing for thee. Unseen evidence is useless evidence."
"I shall study this evidence, and if thou art right, I will bring it before the other Lords."
"Now leave me, so that I may peruse this matter."
"Then I can do nothing for thee. Unseen evidence is useless evidence."
"Then be on thy way! Marsten is the traitor -- what a lark!"
"Wouldst thou be willing to pay a fine of 30 Monetari?"
"Thou dost not have 30 Monetari! Art thou trying to swindle me! Bah!"
"So! Thy friend is not worth the price of justice, eh? Then let him rot!"
"I am Standarr the Armourer. What dost thou wish of me?"
"I envy thee the chance to kill Pomdirgun. I hope thou didst make him suffer!"
"Thanks to thee for liberating the Helm of Monitor from the Goblins. Thou hast truly earned the title of Champion Knight."
"Simon was a Goblin spy! I would never have suspected..."
"Wouldst thou be interested in buying or selling?"
"Wouldst thou care to buy weapons or armour?"
"I buy only armour, friend, and I do not haggle on the price."
"Another time, perhaps."
"Return when my shop is open, and we can talk business."
"I recognize this! This is the ornamental breastplate that I made for Kylista, priestess of Fawn."
"What can I do for thee? I am Templar."
"A peculiar brush? I suspect that I already know what it is, but let me see..."
"That is a Goblin hairbrush! Made out of the bones of their victims, or so the legends claim."
"Perhaps crafted from the thigh bone of one of mine old friends. Someday, thou or I too may be odd bits of furnishings in some Goblin hut!"
"I cannot identify the object if thou dost not show it to me. I will not waste my time making wild guesses."
"Goblins have some pretty strange things. Jewelry made from human bones. Drums made with human skin. Much broken glass. Very macabre."
"I suspect their own village must be brimming with such little nightmares."
"The Goblins consider the pelts of the Gwani to be great prizes -- thou canst recognize a Goblin chief by the pelt he wears."
"The chief always keeps the prize artifacts for himself. But he must lock them away in a safe place, or his followers will steal them!"
"Gwani fur provides great warmth, but it is also valued for its great beauty -- it sparkles in the light."
"What business is it of thee, stranger? Canst thou not see that I am recovering from wounds?"
"I do not wish to spend my limited vitality in idle chatter. I am a warrior, not a clerk..."
"I am a Knight of Monitor, and a member of the Command of the Bear. I also serve Lord Marsten as his tactical adviser."
"We are by far the strongest of the three commands. The envy of the Serpent Isle."
"Adviser for military matters, that is. Some consider me to be an expert in tactics."
"But I must not speak of these things to a stranger. Thou couldst be a spy for them..."
"They are creatures of habit, to be sure. If thou dost know their customs, then thou hast the knowledge to defeat them."
"They always set their travel camps in the same pattern. The chieftain's hut is the largest, and is in the center."
"Each day ends with a drunken revel, and then the exhausted celebrants stumble to their huts and sleep until long past daybreak."
"What else dost thou desire of me?"
"'Tis a bloody war we are fighting. That I am alive, today, speaking with thee is a miracle."
"The Goblins are foul but fascinating creatures. They are more intelligent than one would think. In a bestial way, of course."
"Perhaps in my next life I shall see him again. But not for any prolonged period of time, I hope."
"We have been fighting the damn Goblins since our forefathers landed on these shores. This city was built on the site of a Goblin village."
"Now that thou hast recovered the Helm of Monitor from their fiendish hands, the scales have again tipped in our favor."
"How I look forward to the day when the Goblins have been exterminated from this land!"
"The power of the Helm cannot be understated! With it, Pomdirgun can once again assemble the Goblin Horde, and invade the lands of Men."
"Somehow, we must regain the Helm!"
"The greatest battle of the Goblin wars took place in the days when Gurnordir was King of the Goblins."
"He was the mightiest Goblin who ever lived, and he led the Goblin Horde in the invasion which placed Monitor itself under siege."
"The Goblins stormed the walls, and fought their way inside the city. However, the Bears surrounded them, and Gurnordir was at last slain."
"From his dead body was taken the Helm of Courage, and his ashes are enshrined in Knight's Test."
"We now call it the Helm of Monitor, and it is worn by the Knight Champion. But it first came from the Goblins."
"Whence it came before they got their hands upon it, no one can say."
"The Helm doth have mystical powers, which we believe are due to being imbued with the essence of Courage."
"As Renfry can tell thee, we Monitorians have a special reverence for the Ashes of the Dead."
"When a Knight dies, his body must be brought back to Monitor for cremation. The ashes are then placed in the Crypts."
"In the case of Gurnordir, his ashes have a strange power. Like all ashes, they are imbued with the essence of the living being."
"As thou hast seen, the ashes are used in the climax of the Test of Knighthood. Somehow, they have the power to summon one's totem animal."
"In the climax of the Test of Knighthood, one doth mix one's own blood with the Ashes of Gurnordir."
"Through a mystical process, this causes one's own totem animal to appear. Thus, it is revealed to which Command thou dost belong."
"It shames me to say that I am the sole survivor from the ambush of Astrid's patrol. The Goblins left me for dead, but I was merely dazed."
"There was a heap of bodies where Astrid had last been fighting, but her body was not there. It is obvious to me that they took her alive."
"It was as if they knew our plans! They were lying in wait across our path, and were upon us in moments. What carnage!"
"It grieves me to say this, but there must be a traitor in Monitor. Someone must have revealed our plans to the Goblins."
"As a Bear, I know that our Command is innocent. Caladin doth have many faults, but being devious is not one of them."
"The traitor is either a Wolf or a Leopard. Perhaps if thou dost ask around, thou mightest find clues in this mystery."
"The Wolves have been disloyal to Monitor since Brendann took charge. He would have us guard the roads, not the city itself!"
"If anyone is the spy, it must be Krayg. He is often out in the woods, alone -- and he never brings back booty or prisoners."
"What can he be doing? He says that he doth have an old injury, but he's merely a snivelling coward."
"He is the Goblin leader -- a king or a chieftain, depending on how one translates the Goblin tongue."
"This must have been left by a Man. At last -- evidence to identify our traitor!"
"Such an unusual bottle... Perhaps Lucilla can identify it for thee."
"Thou must inquire to see if anyone can identify this bottle."
"Shortly afterward, Argus left town. He must have been guilty, or he would have stayed to prove his innocence."
"Halt! Who art thou and what is thy business?"
"Who? Never heard of thee."
"I ask the questions here."
"Another stranger! Most suspicious. There have not been many travellers recently."
"What is it now?"
"If there is a traitor, no doubt Lord Marsten shall unmask him. Meanwhile, I shall do my duty."
"Art thou friend or foe?"
"I do not know thou art a friend... I shall let thee in, but thou must have an escort until thou hast spoken to Lord Marsten."
"Thou canst find him at the Crematorium, mourning for the dead. Follow the road north."
"Remember, we shall be keeping an eye upon thee!"
"Then I shall certainly not let thee in."
"The Colored Storms and the Goblins have kept most people off the roads, and so 'tis unusual to see strangers in Monitor."
"Suspicious, in fact..."
"Perhaps thou art in league with the enchanter who materialized in the center of town! We promptly jailed him."
"But the uproar interrupted the funeral ceremonies."
"Didst thou not see the storm which passed by here so recently? Even a Knight must hide from the fury of Nature!"
"Hast thou noticed the lightning? It comes in many colors, and it hath sinister magical properties!"
"Thou dost show an unusual interest in this man. Speak to Lord Marsten. I shall say no more to thee about the matter."
"'Tis a sad affair. One of our patrols was ambushed, and the Goblins slew nearly all of them! Only Templar survived to return."
"We are lost without Astrid, for she was a Warrior of Warriors!"
"The Helm is more than symbolic. Yes, the Champion Knight wears it. But it stands for something!"
"It was once the property of the Goblin chieftain who nearly conquered Monitor!"
"Now that they have it again, we are in dire trouble."
"Since thou hast brought it back, Monitor shall surely never fall."
"I am Flicken, and I am a Knight of Monitor. I belong to the Command of the Bear."
"We are all Knights here. If thou art not a Knight of Monitor, then thou dost not belong in Monitor!"
"The Knights of Monitor are organized into three clans, which are called Commands."
"The Bears are the elite, but there are also the Wolves and the Leopards. Thou canst tell us apart by our tattoos."
"If thou dost ever become a Knight of Monitor, then pray that the Ashes of Gurnordir proclaim thee a Knight of the Bears!"
"We are the strongest of the Commands. The Goblins shall never break this city, so long as we are here to man the walls!"
"I probably should not speak of sacred matters to outsiders, but it is true that the Ashes of the Dead are holy."
"If thou wantest to know more, speak to Caladin or Marsten -- they deal with outsiders."
"Bah! If they had their way, the Wolves would waste all our men defending the highways, and leave Monitor defenseless!"
"Their leader, Brendann, is a profligate. Spending too much time with loose women is bad for a warrior -- mark my words!"
"No one knows what the Leopards stand for anymore! Marsten used to be strong and virile, but now he rules the city from his desk."
"As for Spektor, he would rather pick up a quill than a sword. With such leaders, how can the Leopards amount to much!"
"Monitor hath no King or Queen -- we do not believe in such things, and left our ancient homeland to escape a tyrant who thought otherwise."
"Dost thou know nothing?! Why, we Monitorians have rebuilt the ancient highways, and added new trails and byways."
"Each of our Commands supplies the men to guard the Towers which protect the trade routes."
"But it is all foolishness! Fawn Tower hath been conquered, and the Goblins will not stop there!"
"Why would anyone bother with going anywhere beyond Monitor? This is where Courage thrives -- out there, frivolity reigns..."
"Moonshade is nothing more than a city of mages. Who needs magic? It pales before a sharply honed sword."
"As for Fawn, the place is obsessed with strange customs. And they worship Beauty -- now, how can that compare to Courage?"
"Do not be surprised if most people do not talk to thee! Since thou art not a Knight of Monitor, thou dost not belong here."
"Only the bravest of the brave can be a member of our community!"
"Well, if it isn't another petty tyrant!"
"So, leave thou before I grow tired of thee and thou dost feel the wrath of Ensorcio the Adept!"
"So, thou art returned... Failed in thy puny quest already, Pikeman?"
"So, thou art returned... Failed in thy puny quest already, hero?"
"Filbercio's unjust rule hath been brought to an end!"
"Shamino the Anarch, thy wonderful companion, hath cast him from power and I have been welcomed with open arms!"
"Oh, what joy! To be back in Moonshade and free to experiment as I wish!"
"Yes, tyrant! And I shall say it in front of Argus, too, for all that matters!"
"Thou dost not speak to an ordinary Pikeman!" *"This is the Avatar!"
"Thou mayest not judge the Avatar by this mark alone!"
"Do not let him say such things about thee, Avatar!"
"I see thee draw thyself up... Have I offended thee? And what wilt thou do, Pikeman? Drag me to thy jail as thy comrades did drag Hawk?"
"For all that he is Devra's son, he is still a dog!"
"Wilfred is Devra's youngest whelp. And I'll wager that thou wilt never find a better example of the attitude of which I speak."
"He's a fine one to talk of attitude..."
"Or perhaps I should say @donation@!"
"Hawk is the captain of the Arabella."
"As thou dost wish..."
"Moonshade, the city of wonders! And the city of charlatans!"
"Filbercio is a presumptuous maggot who calls himself MageLord of Moonshade!"
"Freedom! What a farce!"
"'Tis a small wonder that I did not end there..."
"Rather showy, if thou shouldst ask me... But rather spectacular results. Entirely too random for my tastes, however."
"I can see that thou knowest of him."
"Absolutely huge... and ugly!"
"Batlin called him Palos. And the daemon went about meekly hooded and robed as his master commanded."
"I do admit, I was impressed. I could not help but think about the trouble that Rotoluncia was having."
"Ever since Filbercio replaced Rotoluncia as his playmate, Rotoluncia hath had to find some other interest to occupy her time."
"So, I am sure that she would take quite an interest in that fat mage's pet daemon. I wish I could send her word..."
"I should have guessed that Batlin intended something shady when I saw those two!"
"I am sure that Batlin brought them expressly to steal the old jawbone left to me by my mentor."
"Between Brunt, the idiot, and Deadeye, the one-eyed pirate, I am lucky still to be alive..."
"'Twas a large serpent jawbone that my mentor received from his mentor, the Mad Mage."
"I think that Batlin found its secret... and created these damned storms."
"He doth refuse to have any dealings with Moonshade to this day. He sits on his island trying to find a way to create life."
"He was a very great man. His name was Vasculio."
"Ah, such a wonder to behold! It doth come from the depths of the Mountains of Freedom, and is quite rare..."
"Thou dost have stoneheart! Could I..."
"This is very valuable information, friend."
"How much wouldst thou pay for it?"
"Imparting such information is risky. Thou dost offer too little in exchange for mine health..."
"Thou couldst not buy even so much as a novice's light spell for that paltry sum! Another offer perhaps..."
"Dost thou think me a shopkeeper to haggle with? I am Ensorcio the Adept! Do not trifle with me..."
"Thou canst be more reasonable than that..."
"How can I be sure what use thou wilt make of this? I do not know..."
"First, thou must have a ritual blood-letting device... Most mages possess one, even though they are technically illegal."
"Once thou hast the blood, thou must use the blood on the Stoneheart. This produces the Bloodspawn that thou wilt need for death spells."
"Perhaps another time then..."
"Art thou interested in buying a spell perhaps? I could always use more money for ale..."
"If thou art ever interested, find me."
"Bucia runs Flindo's shop for him. 'Tis called the Capessi Canton -- a pompous name, if thou dost ask me."
"Bucia charges a fillip more on everything she sells, for her troubles. And is very careful to show Flindo the altered accounts."
"Yes, hero! And I shall say it in front of Devra, too, for all that matters!"
"Thou dost not speak to an ordinary adventurer!" *"This is the Avatar!"
"Thou mayest not judge the Avatar so!"
"Do not let him say such things about thee, Avatar!"
"I see thee draw thyself up... Have I offended thee? And what wilt thou do, hero? Imprison me? Or wilt thou simply murder me?"
"Devra's a fine woman, for all that she is a bit domineering..."
"Devra's a fine woman, for all that she is a bit domineering... But then most women are, are they not?"
"Quite sad, actually. I recall that the morning I went to her to report the theft, she was terribly upset."
"Would never have guessed that he had the spine to leave like that. But I suppose that every man doth have his breaking point..."
"Silverpate is the great-grandfather of Angus."
"But the Adepts in Moonshade tell a different tale."
"The Council hath turned its back on Filbercio's exploits for so long that they sought to make me their scapegoat... their public example."
"Thou canst not know what humiliation is until thou hast been turned out from thine home and told never to return on pain of death!"
"The least that I have heard of is blackmail... Who knows to what other means Filbercio will stoop to fulfill his lusts?"
"Oh, no! Thou shalt not have her name to drag through the mud alongside Ensorcio! Never!"
"Do not interfere with me, Avatar!" ~"I am the MageLord now..."
"Thou dost know that Filbercio is lower than swine..." ~"He doth deserve to be tortured for all the ill that he hath done."
"Do not meddle in that which thou dost not understand, hero!" ~"I am the MageLord, and this man is evil."
"He hath destroyed the lives of many." ~"He doth deserve to be tortured for all the ill that he hath done."
"Unfinished... Discipline..."
"Master... Punishment... No Order..."
"Alcoves... Pain... Cannot succeed..."
"Failed... Duty... Punishment..."
"Soldiers... Discipline... fountain..."
"Seek... Meek..."
"Die in acid!... automaton... fetches Water!"
"Sleek... Speak... Squeak..."
"Use the key to obtain the waters of Logic. Thou hast well earned that honor."
"I fear that someone hath destroyed Number 7, the keeper of the key!"
"I cannot make any accusations, but we are incapable of leaving our post. Something dire must have happened to Number 7."
"I am restricted from taking action against any of my fellows, so it is up to thee to determine what hath befallen the keeper of the key."
"For my part, I can say that I was with Number 2 and Number 6 when last we saw Number 7."
"If thou hast spoken to each of us and hast determined that one of us is guilty, accuse accordingly. But be not hasty in thy judgment."
"Dost thou accuse me?"
"Thou hast no proof! Both Number 2 and Number 6 can attest that I was with them when Number 7 disappeared!"
"Thou hast wronged me!"
"Use the key to obtain the waters of Logic. Thou hast well earned that honor."
"I could not see them well, for the mage kept my fellows and I locked within an energy field while he went about his evil work."
"All I can tell thee is that there were three of them. And one was very large and went heavily-cloaked."
"Who knows what ill is now loose upon the world!"
"It was the duty of Number 7 to keep the key to the fountain room. It hath been quite a while since we last saw Number 7."
"All I remember is that I was with Number 1 when last we saw Number 7. I wonder where he hath gone?"
"If thou hast spoken to each of us and hast determined that one of us is guilty, accuse accordingly. But be not hasty in thy judgment."
"Dost thou accuse me?"
"Thou art wrong! Number 1 can tell thee where I was when Number 7 disappeared!"
"Thou shalt pay!"
"Use the key to obtain the waters of Logic. Thou hast well earned that honor."
"We have failed to protect the Temple! We have failed to provide thee with the solitude to meditate! And no one hath seen Number 7 in ages!"
"I am not worthy of my Number 3! Where is Number 7, the keeper of the key?!"
"No one would interfere with thy communion with the waters of Logic."
"I fear we may never find the key to the fountain room now."
"If thou hast spoken to each of us and hast determined that one of us is guilty, accuse accordingly. But be not hasty in thy judgment."
"Dost thou accuse me?"
"Thou art mad! I was with Number 5 when Number 7 disappeared!"
"I shall make thee bleed!"
"Thou hast ruined it all! Die!"
"Number 7 hath abandoned his post! The key is gone!"
"None shall seek the fountain to meditate again!"
"The last time any of us saw Number 7, I was with Number 2... And that was some time ago."
"If thou hast spoken to each of us and hast determined that one of us is guilty, accuse accordingly. But be not hasty in thy judgment."
"Dost thou accuse me?"
"What art thou saying?! I was with Number 2 when Number 7 disappeared!"
"Thou hast caught me! Very well... the key is thine."
"Use the key to obtain the waters of Logic. Thou hast well earned that honor."
"Where is the justice in the world when a strange mage comes to destroy our Temple and disrupt our peace?! Where is the keeper of the key?"
"Long ago, the Order Hierophant bound a force of great evil into a prison and placed it here for us to guard."
"What peace is left for us here, guardians of an empty shell now that the mage hath loosed what once was captive?"
"I can only hope that the failure of my fellows and I hath not endangered the world too greatly."
"Perhaps the mage waylaid Number 7 to steal the key..."
"But no, that cannot be. For Number 7 disappeared the day I was with Number 3, long before the strange mage came."
"If thou hast spoken to each of us and hast determined that one of us is guilty, accuse accordingly. But be not hasty in thy judgment."
"Dost thou accuse me?"
"Lies! Number 3 will remember that we were together when Number 7 disappeared!"
"I shall have thine head for this outrage!"
"Use the key to obtain the waters of Logic. Thou hast well earned that honor."
"None of us have seen Number 7 since the day that I was with Number 1."
"If thou hast spoken to each of us and hast determined that one of us is guilty, accuse accordingly. But be not hasty in thy judgment."
"Dost thou accuse me?"
"Where is thy Logic?! Both Number 2 and Number 1 can attest that I was with them when Number 7 disappeared!"
"Thou shalt regret thy words!"
"I am the Educator here, seeker. It is my task to determine how far thine Ethicality hath already progressed before the test may begin."
"Dost thou wish to begin the test?"
"Very well... Consider each question carefully before answering."
"No, seeker. If thou shouldst yield to one who is evil, even to save thy life, then thou art admitting the dominion of that evil."
"Thou hast answered well... Of all virtues, Ethicality is often the most subjective and tenuous." *"Thou art worthy to begin the test..."
"As thou wishest..."
"Thou hast returned, seeker! I am pleased." *"I hope that thou hast benefitted from thy meditations... Behold!"
"Further meditation must be done before thou art ready to undertake the tests once more..."
"Thou hast truly learned the Ethicality of saving others! Thou art worthy to continue the test... Behold!"
"Thou hast learned to value Ethicality over money... Thou art worthy to continue the test! Behold!"
"Why dost thou interrupt my dreaming? Canst thou not see that I have important matters to attend to?" *"Argh! I am waking..."
"Ah, Avatar!" ~"This is as it should be... The food is good, the wine is sweet and the company is warm! Wouldst thou care to join me?"
"Hierophant! Thou hast returned!"
"But, thou art not the Hierophant. Pardon, mine energy is low."
"Pardon, but did I just hear thou art the Hierophant? Is it true thou art the Hierophant of Order?"
"At long last thou hast returned! I have kept it safe for all the centuries since thou wert last here!"
"Hierophant, here is thy Serpent Sceptre!"
"It is good that I successfully carried out mine instructions." *"Now, I must rest..."
"Avatar, thou shalt fail!"
"Come! Come and witness mine ascent to power."
"Come, Avatar... Come and meet thy death!"
"I am the guardian of the city of Order. Dost thou wish to enter the great city of Spinebreaker?"
"I cannot allow thee to enter until thou dost tell me the password. Canst thou tell me what the password is?"
"But Avatar, surely thou dost not know the password! How canst thou fool this infernal thing?"
"I am waiting to receive the password."
"Then thou canst not enter the underground city."
Having no idea what the password actually is, you take a wild guess, saying something that sounds like it might make a proper password.
"That is not the correct password! Thou art forbidden to enter!"
"Thou shouldst not loiter about here. Thou must leave this place immediately."
"Halt! It is our duty to question thee. Dost thou serve Order or dost thou serve Chaos?"
"As thou hast seen or surely wilt see, this is not a place that sustains life. There is no safe way out of this place."
"These doors will not open without the proper keys. Not even we have them. This is not an exit."
"Thanks to thee for thine identification."
"We meet again."
"Thou art Avatar!"
"Hurry! Take Ice Dragon blood to Yenani! No time to delay!"
"I am Baiyanda, mate of Mwaerno and healer for Gwani people."
"He great hunter. Mwaerno and Baiyanda joined by Yenani many years ago."
"Myauri Master Hunter of Gwani. He know where game are and how to find. But Mwaerno best at catching game. I very proud of him."
"She our chieftain. Gwani people always led by females. Yenani good friend of Gwenno."
"Gwenno dead. She good woman. Very generous. She once make gift of bucket to Baiyanda. Baiyanda place body at sacred Gwani Death Temple."
"Baiyanda happy that Gwenno alive again!"
"Rest easy. I will help thou."
"Who thou want to heal?"
"Maybe thou return later."
"Thou not hurt!"
"Thou poisoned bad! I fix."
"Good! Poison gone now."
"Magic corrupts balance of nature. Gwani healers learn things like prepare dried fish and use Ice Dragon blood."
"To Gwani, best way to live -- only way -- to live in harmony with nature. And so we not do anything that force nature."
"Dried fish very good food. It keeps thou from hunger longer than other food."
"Would thou like some?"
"Here, have some. It good."
"Too bad. Thou should try some."
"Special things about blood of Ice Dragon that can cure almost any sickness."
"But Ice Dragons very rare creatures. Gwani honor all life -- try everything before we hunt them."
"One did live north of our village. We drove different one east many years ago."
"Gwenno said thou help people in need. Thou must find some Ice Dragon blood for Neyobi! It is the last hope!"
"Here, take bucket of mine. If thou find and slay Ice Dragon, please bring bucket of blood. Take to Yenani, she know what to do with it."
"Good luck. Neyobi's life depend on it."
"Give Yenani bucket of Ice Dragon blood. She know what to do with it."
"Ice Dragon blood saved Neyobi's life. Great many thanks, Avatar."
"I do not know exactly where. We heard nothing for many years."
"No magic in whole world would have saved Neyobi's life. But when Gwani way of healing with balance of nature done, she better."
"Be good very much to meet again."
"Bwundai my name is."
"Avatar, 'tis the pelts! They can smell that we have Gwani pelts on us! I suggest we throw them away!"
"Avatar, 'tis the pelts! They can smell we have Gwani pelts on us! I suggest that we throw them away!"
"Mwaerno. Means 'rain clouds'."
"Our village near. Speak to Yenani."
"It is one foretold by Gwenno!"
"I Myauri, hunting master. My mate Yenani chieftain of our people. I am father of Neyobi and Kapyundi."
"It is ancient, proud Gwani name. It mean 'Blizzard' in our tongue."
"She mate of Myauri all of life. She not only leader of Gwani people, but keeper of stories, and history of our people."
"Neyobi sickness gone! Avatar cure Neyobi. Myauri never forget great deed Avatar do for Myauri. Great deed for Gwani people!"
"It not long ago when Neyobi was well. Then one morning she not wake. That is all I know."
"Speak with Yenani or Baiyanda. They know what to do."
"Not all things in world meant to have answers. Gwani tried to live in balance with world, not force us on nature. Maybe our time is over."
"All Gwani people very happy to know Gwenno alive again!"
"Gwenno killed by The Trapper's men."
"I thank thou for killing The Trapper. Maybe now we live in peace!"
"The Trapper cunning human who hunt us to near extinction. He hunt us for our skins. He live somewhere north. We do not know where."
"Terrible threat to Gwani people ended thanks to thou! We grateful!"
"The Trapper struck! All Gwani dead but Yenani, Neyobi and I."
"Thou be Avatar! Thou nice!"
"Mother say thou found medicine make me better. Thank thou! My name Neyobi! Thou know what that mean?"
"Then thou very smart!"
"It mean 'little dew drops' and also mean my name. Neyobi! Me!"
"Early today I play! I like look at clouds! Other day I saw one that look like penguin! Later, mother and Baiyanda teach lessons."
"Yenani, silly! She chieftain of our tribe. She tell me one day, after I grow, that what I be."
"I not see her in long time! I miss her lot."
"She healer, and smartest person in whole world!"
"Baiyanda teach me about plants and things."
"It is thee again!"
"Thou must be one Gwenno spoke of!"
"Many thanks for returning this, Avatar."
"Here something to reward good deed."
"I am Yenani, mate of Myauri, mother of Neyobi and Kapyundi, leader of Gwani people and teller of Gwani history."
"Long have Gwani been led by my wisdom, and hunting skills of mate Myauri. Together we are heart and soul of Gwani people."
"He is proud and skilled hunter."
"My daughter have severe fever. She dying and only thou canst save her!"
"I thank thee for bringing the one thing that could save daughter."
"To reward thee I can shall give thee a valuable secret."
"Remember that the Gwani people are in thy debt. Perhaps we shall be able to reward thee one day."
"Talk to Baiyanda, healer of our people. She will know what to do."
"We of Gwani overjoyed to learn Gwenno's resurrection."
"We are peaceful people and chose to live apart from races of goblins and humanity."
"Goblins hunt us without mercy. Hatred for us almost greater than hatred for humans."
"Thou brought blood of Ice Dragon! I must have!"
"Daughter can be saved! I thank thee."
"Now, as I promised I reward thee with a valuable secret."
"Thou must give me the blood of an ice dragon so I save daughter."
"He is human called Hazard. He lives in cave north on Ice Plains. I fear he not stop hunt us until he hunt us to extinction."
"Iolo! My beloved Iolo!"
"Oh, I had feared that I would never see thee again!"
"My lovely Gwenno!"
"Now mine heart can sing, at the sight of thee!"
"Thou dost look pale, dear Iolo."
"Thou didst never take care of thyself when I was away..."
"The Lady of Fawn gave me this necklace to give to thee, when at last I found thee, my love."
"Take it as a token of my love."
"The Lady of Fawn gave me a necklace to give to thee, my love. But in all my trials to find thee, I seem to have lost it."
"I had thought to give it to thee as a token of my love."
"I shall cherish it always, Iolo."
"But thou didst not have to give me anything to prove thy love. That thou art here now is proof enough."
"It doth not matter, Iolo."
"Thou dost not have to give me anything to prove thy love. That thou art here now is proof enough."
"I grieve that his wits seem to have left him. But at least he is safe with me."
"I shall do all that I can to aid thee in restoring him. Or gladly care for him all the remainder of my days... even as he is."
"I fear that thy work hath only begun. Batlin's deeds have only worsened the storms."
"As the sand dwindles within the Hourglass of Fate, the danger will only increase. Thou must find the answer quickly, Avatar!"
"There is much I must tell thee before the sand runs down in the Hourglass of Fate."
"Avatar! I have found a most intriguing scroll that tells of some sort of mystic connection between the Banes and the ancient temples!"
"Perhaps if thou wouldst ask one of the monks -- perhaps Thoxa -- she could try to divine where the Chaos Hierophant lies."
"If thou dost think I can be of use..."
"I hardly think that thou hast need of me, Avatar. Look at all thy fine companions!"
"Instead, I shall remain here. After all, what can one old woman do for thee?"
"But I must remain here and study! I must help thee find a way to restore my dear Iolo!"
"I will be of more use to thee if I remain here. I seem to have a talent for finding the information thou dost need."
"Until Batlin interfered, this land had no Balance, but complete chaos was held in check... Until he loosed the Banes."
"Unless Balance is restored, this land shall die... And take every world that touches it into the dust of oblivion as well."
"The Banes are the splintered force of Chaos."
"Thou wilt have to cage them again, as they were before Batlin came. 'Tis only a temporary solution at best."
"Perhaps I can consult the materials here on Monk Isle and discover a way to rid this land of the threat entirely."
"Thou shouldst go to Moonshade."
"I do not believe that caging souls was possible within Britannia. Therefore, the spell must have come from this land."
"And where else but Moonshade wilt thou find a spell in this land? But they are a closed-mouthed lot -- I wish thee luck."
"Although I spent quite a bit of time within Moonshade, I heard nothing about such a spell."
"Since the Mages are all basically vain, that must mean that the spell is a secret... or at least not common knowledge."
"Britannia -- even thine home, Avatar -- is in deadly peril!"
"No world exists without influencing another. So all may be destroyed if New Sosaria dies."
"The forefathers of all the people here were dissenters of Lord British's rule."
"I came upon the ruins of a civilization in many places during my travels."
"They all bore the mark of some serpent design or another. I noted that there appeared to be a different serpent motif in different areas."
"I have no idea if it means anything, but there was a difference between the different ruins."
"It doth seem difficult to believe that they could be talking about the Lord British we know."
"But perhaps time runs differently here than in Britannia."
"Thou hast already experienced the power of the Storms of Imbalance. As time passes, these will increase in frequency and strength."
"After a further period of time, earthquakes will begin to tear the land apart... Until it at last destroys itself."
"The Prophecies of Xenka speak of the Storms of Imbalance."
"Storms unlike any living man hath seen. Storms whose results no man can predict..."
"I am sorry, the prophecies are cryptic at best."
"The monks have recorded all of Xenka's visions. They keep this tome of wisdom within their Chapel, on the altar."
"It is very confusing to read."
"The language is vague and hard to understand."
"I do not know! These forsaken prophecies are so poorly written that I cannot make any headway in finding any reference to any other!"
"I do not know who is responsible, the monks or Xenka herself, but I sometimes feel as if I could strike someone!"
"Before the sands run down, we must find the meaning of these accursed riddles!"
"I know not what a farm wife would consider great magic!"
"For all I know it could be as simple as lighting a candle! Or perhaps she is referring to the power to trap souls."
"It would be so much more simple if Xenka would return and explain these infernal riddles herself! She is worse than Chuckles!"
"For all I know, Xenka is talking about herself!"
"All of these monks are convinced that she will return to help thee finish thy quest... While I wade through all these insane ramblings!"
"What I need is to talk to her specter and see if I can wring any sense out of her rather than these writings!"
"From what Karnax hath told me, a Hierophant was some sort of priest or holy man for these Ophidians."
"What tools would a holy man use? Something for blessing people, perhaps... I know not. I must search further for more clues."
"The soul cages... er, prisms... that thou dost have cannot withstand the powers of beings such as the Banes."
"Only a prism purified by the water of the appropriate temple can hold each Bane. Otherwise, the prism will be ineffective."
"Karnax did tell me that Miggim doth have maps to the various temples..."
"Karnax is quite pompous. He is more inclined to lecture me than to help."
"But I will gladly suffer his speeches if they can help me find the way to restore mine husband."
"His knowledge of the history of these islands hath been invaluable!"
"Miggim is very quiet and helpful."
"'Ophidians' is the word that Karnax uses for the people that once dwelled in the serpent ruins throughout the land."
"I do not know if it is their name for themselves, or if it is a name that he concocted for them."
"Certainly..."
"I am Brendann, stranger."
"I am Brendann. I did meet thee at the Banquet Hall."
"And thou art the most beautiful creature I have ever seen."
"As thou hast won back the helm of Monitor, thou art truly deserved of the title Champion Knight of Monitor. I salute thee!"
"Of what shall we speak?"
"Surely this proves Krayg's innocence, for he is not a drinking man."
"'Tis certainly a unique bottle, unlike common ale bottles."
"Perhaps someone could identify the bottle, if thou wert to show it around. Lucilla at the pub might recognize it."
"I am the leader of the Command of the Wolf. Like all of the Wolves, I am a warrior of cunning as well as strength."
"Then glory will be mine. And the ladies will truly fawn on me!"
"But I should not be speaking with thee until thou dost become a Knight of Monitor. Speak with Marsten about that."
"She may have been a Bear, but she was beautiful..."
"The patrol was betrayed. And who could have known the plans? Why, another Bear, of course!"
"The charges against Krayg are odious. Simply because a man is different, doth not make him a criminal! He is not the traitor."
"I cannot still believe that Marsten would betray the entire city to the Goblins. Still, thine evidence is most convincing..."
"I find it hard to believe that any member of my Command could be a traitor to Monitor."
"How could she betray the patrol? She was a tattoo artist, not a warrior..."
"No, Luther is still the most likely suspect. Continue on thy quest to find the traitor, my friend. As thy commander, I order it."
"I do not pretend to know what happened in the Knighthood Dungeon, but it sounds more like wizardry than Goblin mischief."
"Lord Marsten may want us to believe that the traitor hath been caught, but I do not believe it."
"As a favor to me, please continue searching for the spy. Surely, conclusive evidence shall appear sooner or later..."
"He may be a Bear, but he doth act like a pig! Ha!"
"And if thou dost meet me at my barracks at next midnight, I shall show thee another way to spar..."
"My room is at the corner of Kosric Street and Roland Street, facing the List Field."
"And a fine champion thou dost make, as well. A true pride to the Wolf Command."
"Astrid was a brave woman. But the next Champion Knight shall be me."
"Unless, my dear, thou shalt claim the title thyself."
"Well, they mean nothing to me now that thou art in my life."
"Ah, the ladies of Monitor. All are governed by their own particular passions."
"Lydia, Lucilla, Shazzana, Cellia, Harnna..."
"Lydia was a strange woman, beautiful but dangerous."
"She is a spicy wench, that one! Hath quite a temper and is very opinionated."
"Perhaps thou mayest enjoy her company?"
"She is more quiet. Yet she is not unaffected by the often lonely life of a Monitor knight."
"Her skin is smooth and soft. Finer than any luxuriant mane or hide thou wilt find in her shop, I can assure thee... Harrumph, excuse me!"
"She is a widow now, and hath a fine daughter."
"These days, she keeps to herself and dabbles in magic, canst thou imagine? Hah!"
"I hope Cantra can be found. The Goblins must have taken her -- they eat children, as thou knowest."
"If thou dost mean what I think thou dost mean, please, meet me in my barracks tonight."
"Thy raid of the Goblin camp and recovery of the Helm of Monitor will live in our history forever. Astrid is avenged!"
"Well, if that is the way thou dost feel... Go thou. Prove thyself worthy! Go on!"
"I shall miss thee if thou dost not return..."
"Templar is the expert on the Goblins. Thou mightest consider seeking his advice, before risking thy life."
"Aha! I always knew that buffoon Luther was the criminal. Those Bears shall sing a different tune now!"
"But dost thou have proof?"
"May I see?"
"But this is not what I expected..."
"This is proof that Lord Marsten hath been conspiring with the Goblins! That old goat!"
"He planned to destroy the Wolves! And the Bears! And to make himself King of the city!"
"Lord Marsten was the traitor, and that worm Spektor aided him! Death would be too kind for them!"
"It seems that Marsten sought to spare Astrid's life, but he failed her even as he betrayed his manhood."
"Marsten sought to betray Bull Tower! We must act quickly to warn the Tower."
"I thank thee for showing me this document. Justice will be served. Thou mayest keep this document if thou wishest."
"I thank thee for showing me these documents. Justice will be served. Thou mayest keep these documents if thou wishest."
"Do not worry -- we shall arrest these vermin!"
"Do not worry -- I shall personally see that Marsten is hunted down like the dog he is."
"Until thou dost bring proof, no one will believe us..."
"A female mage would wear stockings such as the ones thou didst discover amongst thy possessions."
"The stockings that thou didst take from Shmed were made in the city of Fawn."
"If thou wilt vouch for thy friend's future behavior, then I shall let him go free."
"Very well. Keep thine eye on him. We do not want people popping in and out of our city as he did!"
"Here is the key to thy friend's jail cell. Set him free."
"Then he must remain in his cell."
"I did already give thee the key to thy friend's cell!"
"Didst thou lose the key I did give thee?"
"Very well. Here then, take this copy. And do not lose this one!"
"Good. I would hate for thee to have lost it..."
"We must hasten to the Serpent Gate!"
"Thou art late! I have been waiting for thee for a very long time..."
"Thou art returned! What tortures hast thou devised for me, Order dog?"
"Thy kind hath destroyed the Balance... All power now rests with the Order villains!"
"The Temples have been desecrated, and the altars have been thrown down..."
"See how thou wilt use it... To slay an unarmed man!"
"Do not deny it, fiend! I know how thy mind works. Even now, thou doth lust to topple the altar of this temple."
"I'm certain it was thy pack of jackals that killed the Great Hierophant! Without Ssithnos' guidance, we are lost... Even thee, dog!"
"Thou knowest of the key? The Chaos Hierophant sent thee!" *"Alas, I have failed my duty... The key that I was to guard and hide is gone!"
"It is the goal of the devout to live pure lives, so that we can ascend to the Void and merge with the Greater One."
"But I stand condemned, for the key is lost!"
"The Chaos Hierophant charged me with an important task... Who would have ever thought that I would be found worthy?"
"I must confess that in mine humility, it never occurred to me that the Hierophant even knew my name!"
"And then, in the hour of need, he selected me! Such an honor!"
"I shall not tell thee... At last, I, Sethys, have something important, something of value." *"I have a secret!"
"A secret! A secret! I have a secret! And I won't tell!"
"Ah, but I can tell that thou dost want mine hidden knowledge. It will do thee no good! I shall keep my secret."
"How canst thou have forgotten? It is time for us to bring the key to the Master."
"Sadly, I have lost the key, so I shall have to beg for forgiveness..."
"Why, I have been in this place for... centuries, it doth seem. The aura of this place must have preserved me to fulfill my duty."
"I am so relieved! There is so much to be done here."
"Oh, but I cannot leave thee now! I have pledged to show thee the resting place of the Hierophant, and I shall not disappoint thee."
"But I would like to return the key to the Chaos Hierophant. Perhaps it would not hurt to go to the Temple of Enthusiasm, briefly."
"Very well! I shall join with thee."
"Ah, but thou hast so many companions! Surely I would only be a nuisance to thee..."
"Greetings again."
"Beware claws of Ice Dragon!"
"Am still Gilwoyai."
"Am Gilwoyai, means @Of the Wind@."
"Vicious beast! This Ice Dragon is mother protecting its babies."
"To find Ice Dragon lair walk north. Take ice raft to cross channel. Beware front opening!"
"Greetings, great hunter."
"Our hunt bad."
"Me Kapyundi, mean @little glacier@. Me son of Yenani and Myauri."
"We try to kill Ice Dragon, use blood to save Neyobi. But lair of Ice Dragon is certain death."
"Front entrance is too much danger! Must be other entrance!"
"Three of us died in Ice Dragon lair. We two injured. Must return to village in shame."
"I do not know where temple. Gwani place of death to west of Ice Dragon's lair. Temple is there somewhere."
"My name is Beryl. I need thine help, but I cannot speak now..."
"What art thou saying to that stranger, Beryl?"
"I shall meet thee as before. Now, go..."
"Nothing, Lord Draygan."
"Do not fear for me -- I can care for myself, now that Draygan cannot use his magical secrets to control me."
"I shall accept thy kind offer, Forest Master."
"I shall go to the Forest Master and beg for a place by his side. He is old, and doth need a help from time to time."
"Thank thee Avatar for thine help. Thou hast given me back my life."
"Why dost thou wait? Use the arrow! Use it to strike down the tyrant Draygan!"
"Then we shall find the secret of his power, and he shall not stop me from obtaining my freedom."
"Tell me -- hast thou prepared the arrow? To defeat the tyrant Draygan?"
"Then use it! Use it to numb the tyrant Draygan!"
"Then we shall find the secret of his power, and prevent him from stopping mine escape."
"Do not thou give me false hopes, stranger! I see no arrow..."
"Thou must treat an arrow with the juices from the King's Savior plant."
"Tell me -- hast thou obtained the plant which I told thee of? The King's Savior?"
"And thou hast enchanted the arrow? Then use it -- use it to numb the tyrant Draygan!"
"Then we shall find the secret of his power, and prevent him from stopping mine escape!"
"Do not give me false hopes, stranger! I see no King's Savior."
"I fear Draygan more each day..."
"Then I despair! For without this herb, Draygan cannot be stopped. I am so afraid..."
"My name is Beryl. I am so glad that thou hast met me privately. We cannot speak for long, lest Draygan or his minions find us."
"I live in fear of Draygan and his terrible power."
"Of the two-score settlers who came to this place led by Draygan, only three of us survive! And the other two work for him!"
"Draygan burned the ship and left the others to die! I know he played a part in the death of mine husband, as well."
"Beware them! They follow Draygan's orders unquestioningly! They would even kill at his word!"
"I discovered why. Draygan had the ship burned, leaving them all to be eaten by the wolves!"
"Mine husband, Carvell, died when Draygan took a group of men in search of gold. Only Draygan returned."
"Now they watch me closely -- but not closely enough!"
"There were beatings, and other things... I would rather not talk about that."
"Surely thou hast heard them! With every cry thou canst hear how they hunger for our flesh!"
"I feared that no one could save me from Draygan, for he is invincible!"
"And what shall we speak of?"
"But that is before thou didst come here! Thou must save me from this devil Draygan!"
"This would give us the chance to find and steal the source of Draygan's power. Unless we do this, I am doomed to be his slave."
"According to legend, the plant is found in the deepest and most dangerous part of the forest."
"Only one man can help thee. The Forest Master could guide thee to King's Savior -- but beware him! He possesses strange powers."
"His name is Morghrim. His face is horribly scarred, yet I do not fear him the way I fear Draygan."
"His dwelling place lies far southwest of here, in a grove of silverleaf trees. Perhaps he shall deign to aid thee."
"I do not believe we have met. My name is Draygan. I am lord of all the land that I survey."
"We meet again, I see."
"But we were soon to hear the best part..."
"I have acquired naught but half of my legacy... though I already have the power!"
"A man named Falcon declared himself the leader of a group of dissenters that was comprised of nearly half of our number."
"Well, all that is the past, and there is nothing one can do for the dead. And we have the treasure..."
"Simple disobedience, really. Oh, yes, and someone cut Hamlin's throat and stole his gold. I do not know who did it."
"They were led by the weakling, Falcon. After they left, I never saw them again. Ah, well..."
"I need not bore thee with the details of how I learned of this power. Suffice it to say that I cannot die."
"Hurd and Ivor work the mines night and day. Beryl cooks and cleans. They are good workers. They shall make me wealthy."
"If we ever come into conflict over the gold that I know lies somewhere in this land, I shall kill thee dead without an ounce of regret."
"I am the Master of the Great Northern Forest, and none can dispute it."
"And if thou shouldst ever speak to a disfigured cripple named Morghrim --"
"and I would recommend against that --"
"pay no mind to what he may say. Morghrim is an evil and depraved man. Thou shouldst avoid him like the plague."
"This is the one and only piece of friendly advice I shall give to thee."
"Thou must return the Heart of Elerion to me! I need it to restore balance to the forest and its creatures."
"I must have the Heart of Elerion. Draygan had it, but it belongs to me. If thou canst find it, I shall reward thee."
"I am Morghrim, Master of these forests."
"There thou art! I knew thou wert here somewhere!"
"I thank thee for all that thou hast done. The forest and its animals are free from the evil that Draygan had instilled in them."
"Stay here as long as thou wishest, friend."
"What wouldst thou have me speak of, stranger?"
"I thank thee for thy kind deed! In return I shall give thee the whistle to summon the Hound of Doskar."
"Give the Orb to me, and thou shalt have a most peculiar reward -- the Whistle of Doskar."
"Use it and thou shalt summon one of the great supernatural hounds from my world. Such a hound can track anything, over any distance."
"Thou art looking for the plant they call King's Savior? It is a green plant with spiked foliage and tiny yellow blossoms."
"Thou shalt find King's Savior growing near mushrooms, along the western shore of this land, beyond the mountain ridge."
"I won't be asking what thou dost want it for. It is none of my business."
"He is a great gray wolf, and my longtime friend. He is also a refugee, like myself. We have been through many adventures together."
"Through his efforts, we escaped, and I used the last of my magic to escape. We found ourselves here -- on the Serpent Isle."
"Unfortunately, I am having a problem with most of mine other magical powers."
"Before the Hound of Doskar can track, thou must show it an item belonging to the person whom thou dost wish to seek."
"Not any old item -- it must be something which reflects the soul of the lost one! Something personal, something of the heart."
"Then the Hound can guide thee to the general vicinity where the sought being doth dwell. Nothing can stop the beast."
"But it hath been stolen!"
"Through it I have the power to heal the land when harm hath come to it, and I can summon the Hound of Doskar."
"I cannot help thee until mine Orb, the Heart of Elerion, is returned..."
"Then why are we talking about the Hound of Doskar?! Bah! I have heard more coherent conversations from trees!"
"Wouldst thou try to retrieve mine Orb?"
"Then I have nothing more to say to thee!"
"Yes, felon?"
"'Tis gratifying to see that I shant have to collect thy skull yet. Such stamina shall be useful to thee here, certainly."
"Greetings, felon!"
"Thou art in the Mountains of Freedom... A magical prison from which none have escaped."
"I am the caretaker here. It is my duty to record thy name and crime."
"I see... Perhaps thou couldst have pleaded insanity and avoided being sent here, felon."
"With thine attitude, I understand why thou art here."
"With what crime art thou charged?"
"Ahh, thou art in fine company then, felon. Only yesterday we had another such felon arrive... Let us see. Stefano was his name."
"I will tell thee as I told him. Sleep passes thy time here, and may provide thee with new ideas for winning thy freedom."
"Remember, if thou canst find thy way out, thou wilt be free!"
"Greetings, felon!"
"Art thou in need of food or healing?"
"Such items are very valuable here, felon. Thou mayest find the prices steep..."
"What dost thou wish, food or healing?"
"Thou art always welcome here, felon... As long as thou dost have money, that is."
"Then thou wilt have to move on..."
"Thou hast made it this far... Dost thou wish to purchase food or healing potions?"
"Such items are very valuable here, felon. Thou mayest find the prices steep..."
"What dost thou wish, food or healing potions?"
"Take the key and enjoy thy freedom!"
"Free! Free! Free at last!"
"Fool! Thou hast no idea what thou hast lost..."
"But perhaps thou wilt have need of me yet..."
"In fact, I think that I will stay close by thee -- that will be safest for me!"
"I am Stefano, late of Moonshade, and obtainer of rarities..."
"How may I aid thee, Avatar?"
"I see that thou art still hale and whole, Avatar!"
"Next I remember, this beautiful woman was standing over me. She kissed me, and a warmth spread throughout my body..."
"Umm... I apologize for droning on and on. What wouldst thou like to speak about?"
"My talk bores thee, eh? So thou dost think that I drone on and on with my long-winded stories..."
"Well, actually, 'tis the truth. A bad habit that I'd like to be rid of."
"At any rate, what dost thou desire to speak of?"
"And I thank thee once again for saving my life. I shall never forget thee."
"A terrible, glowing being came to Moonshade, and battled against all of the Mages! I believe them to be dead..."
"This all started with a piece of work I did for the late MageLord, which involved procuring some stockings..."
"'Tis a long story, but to be brief, Columna the Green Witch hated me for what I did. She is dead now, but her curse lives on."
"I'd spit on her grave, if she had one, the hag!"
"From the depths of some hell, she hath summoned up a tireless warrior to pursue me!"
"'Tis a Death Knight, whose sole purpose is to slay the victim he is promised. Columna pledged my soul to this one."
"Surely, thou canst save me! Slay him for me, and thou shalt have my most priceless reward!"
"Well, I don't know how to kill him. I only know that he is very, very tough. Mayhap immortal."
"Perhaps nothing can stop a Death Knight."
"Don't let me discourage thee from making the attempt to slay the thing. My life depends on it, friend!"
"And do not think of killing me and taking the Serpent. I have it well hidden."
"Wish I knew. He doth charge at me when I least expect it. Sometimes he appears from thin air!"
"Give me a good challenging search any day! The harder something is to find, the better I like it."
"Filbercio promised me a small but substantial fortune if I could procure a certain pair of moonsilk stockings."
"The stockings were evidence, since only Columna wears this sort, and because I found them in Torrissio's manor."
"However, Columna found out that I stole them, and she wants mine head on a platter. Literally!"
"I'm glad the old witch is dead. I only wish her curse had died with her..."
"Magic! It seems as if some dark magic is following me these days..."
"I sometimes carry a spell scroll or two... May as well make use of any edge I can acquire."
"In fact, if we escape, I suggest that thou shouldst acquire as many spell scrolls as thou canst -- they come in very handy!"
"Thou dost not know the half of it! One time I was passing time at the Blue Boar while Frigidazzi was there."
"Thou knowest the kind of beauty that artisans create? 'Tis like unto Frigidazzi -- like a cold marble carving."
"Oh, I'll grant that there's a hot predator under that shroud of ice, but few have seen it."
"Like the cold spells she excels in, Frigidazzi certainly knows how to lower the temperature in a room..."
"'Tis a wonder that Filbercio hath not died of frostbite by now! I cannot discern if he's a brave man... or merely stupid!"
"Dead, is she? At thine hand?"
"But Adepts, being the pompous lot they are, fail to see anything other than a magical attack as a threat."
"The automatons are harder to deal with..."
"Wands, crystal balls... things like that."
"Oh, no! Ask no more! I guarantee my clients complete secrecy."
"Last time I looked, they were still in there..."
"I... I think it was a... a dragon!"
"Without mine aid thou canst not hope to escape, and I am no fighter! Without thee I am a dead man!"
"No, but thank thee for asking."
"Thou and I, we'll do good together!"
"Wait. I almost forgot about this..."
"Found this object when I happened to be passing through one of the manors, if thou knowest what I mean..."
"Let me give this to thee, as a token of my great esteem for thine ability to save my life."
"It looks to be one of the Serpent Teeth that Mad Erstam used to collect."
"To have told you to seek the Pillar of Fire. To grasp it and enter the Test of the Ancients."
"To delay no longer."
"To be caught in indecision!"
"To say that you have returned from the Test, as the Dream said that the Hero would."
"To ask if you have brought me the Goblet. To know that this shall prove you to be the Hero of the Dream."
"To be true! To apologize most sincerely for doubting you..."
"To keep the Goblet, Hero From Another World. To hope that it might have powers to aid you on your quest."
"To wonder if you jest. To say you do not have the Goblet. To be unwilling to deal with you until you have gotten it."
"To say that you are confused, but to give you the ring as promised. To say that I am certain that you are the Hero from our dream."
"To keep the Goblet, Hero From Another World. To hope that it might have powers to aid you on your quest."
"To be displeased that you do not have the Goblet. To be unwilling to deal with you until you have gotten it."
"To ask if you have reconsidered. The Twin Pillars await the Hero of the Dream."
"To waste our precious time! To leave now!"
"To be wary that you might be like others of your kind, who come here to slay my people and steal our treasures."
"And yet... to wonder if you are the Hero of the Dream."
"To be female as the Hero was in the dream..."
"To be protection against our enemies. To be lowered and raised by ancient levers."
"To know that only gargoyles are strong enough to pull the levers!"
"To say sadly that Men come to do us harm. To not understand why they call us Daemons..."
"To say they are brawny warriors in stout armour. To delight in shedding our blood. To hate us greatly."
"To regret that we cannot make peace with them."
"To tell you there is no such thing as a daemon. To be sure that Daemons are creatures from stories, used to frighten young ones."
"To disbelieve that Men can believe us to be Daemons. To be Gargoyles."
"To say that many Men have come here to steal the wealth of the Lost City."
"To be willing to share... To be angry that the Men in Armour do not want to share. To want only to kill us."
"To be as ignorant as they are greedy."
"To say that these invaders cannot stand the heat of this place! To quickly die."
"To be amused to see them come again and again, only to die. To survive long enough to vex us with their weapons, before their deaths."
"To say that several generations of gargoyles have dwelled here. To assure you that this place was old before we came."
"To look about and know that the people who dwelt here revered serpents. To say that they also suffered a great calamity."
"To wonder what happened to those who once dwelt here..."
"To tell you that our slumber is filled with a single Dream, a vision of a Hero from another world..."
"To say that the Hero is most like you..."
"To say that the Hero is a Man, most like you."
"To wonder if you are the Hero."
"To go your way! To leave my people to their slumbers, and the fate which grasps them in the night."
"To hope the Hero comes soon..."
"To tell you that this city is old. To have a long history before the gargoyles found it."
"To know little about the former inhabitants, but to believe that they were not Evil. To have visited their sacred places amid the ruins."
"To assure your companions that no harm shall come to you or to them during the Test. To believe this myself."
"To have visited this place within the Underground City. To be in the north-eastern chambers of the city."
"To have seen two stone pillars of great size, in the semblance of serpents."
"To say that the Pillar of Ice is broken. To say that the Pillar of Fire yet stands."
"To have a great treasure among the Gargoyles, an artifact discovered among the ruins. To not know its powers."
"To have seen by the Dream, that we must entrust this device to the Hero who shall come."
"To say that this Ring of the Serpent shall be the means of guiding the Hero in his struggle against the Imbalance."
"To have detected a change in the structure of the world, by means of an Imbalance of Essences."
"To know this is the reason why great storms now howl across the face of this world, hurling their lightnings down."
"To know this is not all -- to become worse with time, until the End of the World. Unless the Hero prevails."
"To weep for the creatures that succumb most easily to the sickness of this world."
"To have dreamed of dying infants, of minds numbed or gone insane, and of beings which simply waste away due to the Imbalance."
"To despair for my people, for they are lost in slumbers and the Dream. Only I remain."
"To have seen the Three Ghosts stalking the land, through the Dream."
"To declare that one has the Evil Glow. One has the haunting eyes that mock. One has the Serpent's Head."
"To know that this is not yet, but shall soon be. These are the Enemies of the Hero."
"To delay my purpose no longer..."
"To ask if you are willing to take the Test. To prove that you are the Hero of which we dream."
"To be sad... To know that we are fading rapidly. To hope that the Hero comes soon."
"To not have heard of any Avatar..."
"To be wary that you are not like other Men, and to hope that you are not here to steal our treasures."
"To be possible? To be the Hero that we have dreamed of?"
"To seem to recognize you, as if from the vision of my slumbers... To wonder if you are the Hero of the Dream..."
"To be thought of as the trolls' communication. To be trouble for all within the sound of the drums."
"To have been unclear. To have only seen two snakes fighting... To know that the ring is important in the battle. To know nothing else."
"To have once had the Serpent Staff. To have been taken by the troll king."
"To have little to tell you..."
"To only say that the Imbalance is growing worse. To fear that there will be no gargoyles left undreaming soon."
"To be fighting the dreaming. To regret that there is no aid to give as long as the Imbalance exists!"
"To need one last task from you. To be without doubt. To be done before giving thee the artifact."
"To be sure that your friends are hasty in your behalf."
"To be unwilling to allow the ring to fall into the wrong hands. To say that the Dream warns of the deceitfulness of the Spectral Trinity."
"To keep its secrets well guarded. To have slain all of our warriors who entered."
"To have listened to the dying speech of one explorer, and have heard of a Magic Goblet which lies in this room."
"To believe that only the noblest Hero could retrieve such an object."
"To refuse to give you the Ring of the Serpent. To ask that you submit further proof of your Virtue."
"To open the brass gate, that you may gain the surface."
"To know that the only exit is at the brass gate at where we first met. To know that Men are too weak to pull the levers to open it."
"To go now to the brass gate, Hero. To meet you there and to let you return to the surface."
"To give me your answer -- will you bring me the Goblet of the Conjury?"
"To have nothing to fear, if you are the Hero. To meditate to give you strength."
"To know that time is short. To wish that the true Hero shall come soon."
"Thank the heavens I have found thee! Thou didst disappear..."
"When the Guardian appeared, we feared thou wert taken. Thou must hurry, I have found a way for thee to return home!"
"Zhelkas said that the drums were a sign that the trolls were on the move." *"We must escape, Avatar, the drums are growing louder!"
"Wilt thou flee with thine old friend Iolo?"
"Thou wilt reconsider when thou dost hear what the Guardian said..."
"Zhelkas said that the land would be better off without thee. The Guardian said that the end is inevitable. Why stay when we shall all die?"
"Follow me through the gate, Avatar! Thou wilt soon be home..."
"The Guardian spoke to us after thou didst disappear."
"The Guardian said that he hath grown tired of the game here on Serpent Isle. The end is inevitable now..."
"The Guardian said to tell thee that he was changing the venue..."
"The Guardian said that Balance could never be restored now. He said that the land will soon destroy itself... And us with it."
"There is nothing that thou canst do here, Avatar! We will be crushed and dragged beneath the waves if we stay!"
"Wilt thou follow me? I can help thee escape to save those that thou lovest."
"Follow me through the gate, Avatar! Thou wilt soon be home..."
"Why would the Guardian go to such lengths, Avatar? He already has thee trapped here... In a land he says will soon rend its heart out."
"Wilt thou come with me now? I am sure that thou canst return home at last."
"Reconsider, Avatar! Thou couldst spend the rest of thy life waiting for another chance to return to thine home and family..."
"Follow me through the gate, Avatar! Thou wilt soon be home..."
"Thou didst examine the fiery pillar, as Zhelkas instructed thee... And then thou wert gone!"
"I think the Gargoyle hath tricked us, Avatar. Never trust their type..."
"When we sought to question him about thy disappearance, he was nowhere to be found. So we divided to look for thee..."
"I became confused when trying to return to the pillars. And here I am... With all these lovely people."
"They seem to be trapped here as well."
"They have been trying to discourage me from using the button on the left... but there are powerful rewards for pressing that button!"
"Well, these people seem to have been here a very long time. They are... lonely... for company."
"There is much that we could do to make them feel less lonely, Avatar, if thou dost know what I mean..."
"Thou canst see for thyself... There is no way out of here. I can find no concealed doors."
"It is only reasonable that these buttons hold the way out. Though they also hold much more..."
"Apparently the buttons also control the doors to the private chambers."
"And also the private passions of these people! This is such fun, Avatar."
"I can show thee, if thou wouldst like... Or thou canst press the button on the left post and see for thyself."
"Wouldst thou like me to do it?"
"Perhaps later, when thou art more relaxed, eh?"
"There are two buttons on the posts behind me."
"When I went to press the one on the left, these comely folks begged me not to."
"Yes, begged. But they would not explain, and I was certain they were hiding something from me..."
"What could I do?"
"I pressed the button on the left... And made a rather fascinating discovery."
"I found out how very lonely certain of these folks have been -- particularly the women..."
"They have been very convincing."
"Press the button, and thou canst see for thyself!"
"See, Avatar? When I press this button, the women become so friendly towards me..."
"Now I and one of my new friends shall go to a private chamber for some socializing... if thou knowest what I mean..."
"I do not think I'll be back for quite a while, Avatar. Thou shalt have to find the way out thyself."
"If thou wishest to..."
"See, their desire to please thee hath clouded their minds..."
"Open the door to their private chambers and let them show thee how much they'd like thee to stay..."
"They can be... very... persuasive."
"The slaves, Avatar! Thou didst release them all! Damn thee!"
"No time to talk, Avatar. There is exploring to be done!"
"'Tis just through here..."
"It looks important, though I am no judge of such things. Thou shouldst come look while thou hast the chance..."
"There is no wine, Avatar. But thou shouldst see the weapons! If thou dost not finish soon, I cannot promise to share..."
"Avatar! Thou shouldst see the treasure that I have found! Stay and finish the Game. I shall try to bring some to thee..."
"This is boring, indeed. I will leave thee to the Game, Avatar. I am going exploring..."
"Zhelkas hath appointed me moderator of the Game, Avatar. He hath also given me leave to explore..." *"Art thou ready to begin?"
"It is my duty as moderator to see that thou dost know the rules. After I have informed thee, I cannot aid thee... In any way."
"The rules are few..." *"Thou shalt face ten Worms. Thou canst not leave until the last Worm hath been dispatched."
"Thou shalt face each Worm singly, one after the other. Each Worm shall seek thy death, Avatar. So be prepared."
"The Worms can only be killed by a hammer. Each Worm can be slain only by hammer blows."
"'Tis common knowledge, Avatar! I am surprised at thee... Cease such questions and put thine attention to the Game!"
"I cannot assist thee in thy struggle against the Worms, either directly or indirectly."
"I cannot join thy fight against the Worms. If I do, thou wilt lose the Game."
"I cannot give thee anything I find while exploring. If I give thee anything, thou wilt lose the Game."
"That is how Zhelkas referred to it, Avatar. Perhaps it is a test of thy skill or versatility as a warrior."
"Well, unless Zhelkas was talking about wine casks... I'd say he might have been referring to weapons."
"Do not worry, old friend! I shall try to save thee a drop or two." *"But thou shouldst be quick, lest I forget..."
"If there is time after the Game, perhaps thou canst join me. If I can carry it... Perhaps I'll bring thee something."
"Information, weapons..." *"I bring back what I can... As long as there isn't too much wine!"
"Dost thou have the protection of Courage to face thy dreams? Can thine helm face the power and kiss the lips of sweet death?"
"Dost thou have the glass petals of Love to bind thy dreams? Canst thou swim the seas of death and come forth the father of power?"
"Edrin! Thou hast come..."
"Siranush! I had despaired of seeing thee again! How I wish I could be with thee always..."
"Thou hast filled my world with the love I never knew while my body lived. For that, I have called thee here for one last sight of thee..."
"Then the Hero hath succeeded in destroying the Dream Crystal?"
"Although I know it would be wrong, I wish with all mine heart that thou wouldst not. If I could join thee, I would gladly."
"I have no wish to bind thee here, for all that I love thee. I will live my life and pray to meet thee beyond this world."
"I love thee... And I shall dream of thee all the rest of my days." *"Farewell..."
"Hast thou reconsidered my request, Avatar? Wilt thou give to me the Dream Crystal?"
"I knew that Edrin could not be so misled..."
"Then do not return unless thou hast had a change of heart! I am saddened beyond bearing!"
"Hast thou reconsidered my request, Avatar? Wilt thou bring to me the Dream Crystal?"
"I knew that Edrin could not be so misled..."
"Then do not return unless thou hast had a change of heart! I am saddened beyond bearing!"
"I am Siranush. I have been expecting thee..."
"Now that the foul mage Rabindrinath is dead, we have some hope of escaping his evil spell."
"Without the Crystal, our souls remain trapped. Bring to me the Dream Crystal and the Serpent Necklace is thine..."
"To exit this place, thou must remember that from death a dreamer awakes. Seek the pillar of flame."
"Remember, death is a dreamer's fiery door to life."
"As Edrin hath told thee of me, he hath dreamed of thee. I knew that thou wouldst come... 'Twas only a matter of time."
"'Tis a thing of power from the people who settled this land after the village of Gorlab existed. It is to be thy reward."
"I do not know what it will do... I only know that it was part of a set of such jewelry. And it was a symbol of authority of some sort."
"Thou wert our only hope, Avatar. Our souls are trapped here, unable to go to what awaits beyond the realm of life."
"Thou dost have what will free us... If thou wilt help us, I shall reward thee with the Serpent Necklace."
"If thou wilt undertake the task I ask, I shall reward thee with the Serpent necklace."
"Thou art the only one that can hope to save the land from tearing itself apart, Avatar."
"I do not know what thou must do... I only know that thou must possess the Serpent Necklace before thou hast hope of succeeding."
"But first, thou must free us."
"Although it was Rabindrinath's spell that trapped us within the Dream Realm, it is the Dream Crystal that keeps us from leaving."
"It is also the Crystal that traps any who enter the swamp."
"If thou wilt give me the Dream Crystal, we will all be freed."
"Bring to me the Dream Crystal and we will all be freed."
"Before thou didst slay Rabindrinath, thou hadst seen a small part of the whole..."
"The crystal that Edrin wears is a shard of the Dream Crystal. That is how I was able to speak with him."
"The entire crystal is what thou didst find in Rabindrinath's Keep when thou didst kill him."
"To find the Dream Crystal, thou must venture into Rabindrinath's Keep somewhere within the Dream Realm."
"And it was all I could do to keep Rabindrinath's insanity from destroying us."
"And I can do little more than keep Rabindrinath's insanity from destroying us."
"Wilt thou give to me the Dream Crystal so that we may at last find peace?"
"Edrin hath thought thee kind... I see that he was misled."
"Without thine aid we are doomed to eternal limbo, not dead and never to be alive again. Trapped forever in insanity."
"Return if thou dost reconsider... I doubt that thou canst finish thine own quest without mine aid."
"Thou art truly as brave as Edrin pictured thee! I can tell thee how to defeat Rabindrinath..."
"Return if thou dost reconsider... I doubt that thou canst finish thine own quest without mine aid."
"In order to do this, thou must be armed with three artifacts... the Artifact of Courage, the Artifact of Love, and the Artifact of Truth."
"Bring to me the Dream Crystal from Rabindrinath's keep and we shall at last be free!"
"What... hath... happened? Where... am I? Who am I?"
"I remember! I am Number 7!"
"Oh, foul betrayal! Number 4 murdered me and took the key!"
"He must not be allowed to hold the hallowed key!!"
"Now I must kill thee, lest the Serpent judge me unworthy. Bless my blade, master!"
"Thou art not permitted here. It is dangerous here. The forces beyond these doors are not of mortal understanding."
"Thou art not permitted here! I and my kind are the only beings allowed to prowl these tunnels. We are here to maintain Order."
"Unless thou canst show me thy Medallion of Order, I shall have to slay thee. Dost thou have one?"
"Aha! Then die, Spawn of Chaos!"
"Thou dost lie! Now I must certainly slay thee."
"Then die, Spawn of Chaos!"
"Iieeeee.... Help me!" ~"I cannot escape..." ~"It will catch and devour me!" *"Canst thou not see it? Please, help me!"
"Halt! Only a true follower of Order may pass this portal. Art thou such a disciple?"
"'Tis good to see thee again, scholar of Order."
"I surmise thou didst come across with the others."
"That may be, but I must test thy knowledge before I permit thee access to the grand shrine."
"Though I doubt one such as thee would attempt to deceive me, many 'followers' of late do not appear to truly be devoted to Order."
"In truth, I believe them to be impostors, though they did answer the question I put to them."
"Only a devout student of Order would know the answer."
"'Thou wert strong, thou wilt be stronger. Thy strength will be exalted in truth.'"
"Mayhap thou dost need to study more at the Hierophant's library. 'Tis a wondrous place full of the wisdom of Order."
"Ah, so thou art a true accolyte of Order. I will permit thee to enter the Grand Shrine."
"At the end of this corridor lies the grand shrine of Order. That is where the Hierophant performs the ceremony to open the Wall of Lights."
"In truth, I believed them to be impostors, though they passed the test I put upon them."
"He answered my questions easily, though in truth I cannot remember what I asked of him."
"I am truly sorry, but I can only operate these doors. I know nothing about any other doors in this place."
"Then thou shalt not pass."
"The bells are signaling the return of Xenka!"
"Thou art the Hero from Another World. It is for thee that she doth return. We must hurry!"
"Prepare yourselves for the coming of Xenka!"
"I have nothing against thee, but I fear that Thoxa's willful interference shall be the undoing of all for which we have prepared."
"Hast thou returned with the scroll?"
"Very good! Now, if I may see it, I may be able to unlock the secret to restoring thy lady friend."
"I have it now."
"Thou dost not have the serpent scroll!"
"Without access to that scroll I can be of no further use to thee. Dost thou not remember what I told thee?"
"Oh! One of thy friends hath met an untimely end. This should not be..."
"If thou art ready to see thy friend again, ask and I will return them to thee."
"It was used at the Serpent gates, but we know not what it does."
"I am sorry. Thou must needs search for it thyself. I fear I cannot aid thee in this."
"When I came to try to dissuade Thoxa from aiding thee directly it was not an attack against thee."
"I sought to win her away from her foolishness by rational argument. Regrettably, it became a test of magics."
"As thou canst see, Thoxa and I are both skilled enough that we both yet live."
"Unlike the unenlightened Mages of Moonshade, our powers come not from moldering reagents."
"The power of a Xenkan monk comes from a connection to the limitless Void that surrounds the universe."
"The Mages of Moonshade are but mere children playing at the arts they have not the patience to learn."
"True magic comes after long years of meditation and self-sacrifice."
"Consider the Void to be the frame within which our Cosmos is bound. It is the source of unimagined power..."
"Power that thou mayest draw upon freely, if thou hast forged a gateway into it through long meditation."
"Unlike the silent novices that thou dost see among us, Thoxa and I have both forged gateways into the power of the Void."
"Manipulation of time and space requires more power than one monk can channel."
"So teleportation and resurrection require that all the monks conjoin their power."
"Xenka was given visions of the ending of our world."
"However, she was barely literate, and needed others to act as scribes for her convoluted visions."
"Even now the storms flay the land. Soon the earthquakes will unleash the fire that will engulf the world."
"Doth natural lightning do aught but kill? Doth normal lightning transport an item thousands of leagues from where once it stood?"
"And the storms are growing more frequent and fierce with each passing day."
"Have no doubt that it will convulse as death draws near, even as a man."
"And where will we insignificant mortals be once the land which nurtures us heaves its last, explosive breath?"
"Xenka was a cross farm-wife who saw her visions as a means to have others do her work for her."
"Yet despite her human failings, her visions are true... Thou art here, even if she is not."
"Xenka disappeared quite some time ago. Many think that she will return to deliver the final key to saving our doomed world."
"I think that her visions had left her and she slunk quietly away to die in obscurity."
"Those that live within this abbey believe that Xenka's prophecies hold the key to diverting the fiery end that awaits the world."
"I do not know if Xenka's visions were full of diverse images or if she couched them in such terms out of peevishness."
"Thoxa is a very bright young woman, who would like to feel that she hath single-handedly saved the world."
"Miggim is by nature a quiet young man, not given to impetuousness. He is ideally suited to be our librarian."
"His greatest desire is to be helpful, as well as ordered. In fact, it was he who divined the passage that foretold of thy coming."
"He hath taken the chaos of our library and turned it into a vastly more organized area."
"In fact, I believe that we have the most concise collection of Ophidian books and scrolls that still exists."
"Of course, it helps that we have the Lens of Translating."
"The Ophidians are commonly referred to as the Serpent people because of the embossed serpents found within the ruins of their cities."
"Our records are incomplete concerning the time of the resettlement. For that, thou shouldst see Fedabiblio in Moonshade."
"Thou shouldst bear in mind that their accounts are likely to be highly biased in their own favor."
"Fedabiblio is the master archivist in the city of Mages. He is also a teacher, and will be able to help thee."
"I believe that the Ophidian government disintegrated and their society split into two opposing groups."
"It was determined by all monks that the time for the Hero from Another World was at hand."
"It was also decided that we would take no direct action to influence the Hero in any way..."
"Thoxa overstepped her bounds by giving thee the Hourglass of Fate."
"All references to the one who can alter the course of destiny allude to the Hero from Another World."
"Art thou from this land, from New Sosaria?"
"Dost thou see? When taken with the other signs, it points to thee as the one who alone can save our land."
"Hmmm. Perhaps we have misinterpreted the passage."
"I shall meditate further on this matter."
"The damage hath been done. It is now thine to keep."
"It was designed so that we might be able to gauge when certain events were nigh. Perhaps it will serve thee better. I do not know."
"I share thy grief over the loss of Goodwife Gwenno. I am sure that we can resurrect her, if thou dost wish."
"Thy concern for this young woman is well warranted, I fear."
"Something hath sorely affected her, for I do not believe that she could be so disturbed otherwise."
"Curious, the Bane of Chaos is an Ophidian term."
"It all becomes clear!"
"The Ophidians based all their beliefs on six virtues. And the consequences of an imbalance of these virtues are very dire..."
"In fact, it sounds as if they could destroy the world!"
"The virtues are: Tolerance, Ethicality, Enthusiasm, Discipline, Emotion and Logic."
"The anti-virtues -- when there is no balance -- are: Amorality, Wantonness, Insanity, Prejudice, Apathy, and Ruthlessness."
"I will draw thee a chart, so that it might be more clear."
"Thou dost have the chart in thy possession that will explain this further."
"Eventually the world will destroy itself... Much like what is happening now."
"Within a person, like thy friend Gwenno, the lack of Discipline would produce Wantonness... Much like the behavior she is exhibiting now."
"There does seem to be a cure, however."
"According to this, thou shouldst have the victim drink the water from the temple dedicated to that virtue which the person lacks."
"My name is Miggim. I am the librarian on Monk Isle."
"I have been awaiting thine arrival..."
"So, thou art the one whose arrival we have been awaiting."
"I am Miggim, the librarian here on Monk Isle."
"I have this strange foreboding..."
"Oh! One of thy friends hath met an untimely end. This should not be..."
"If thou art ready to see thy friend again, thou hast merely to ask and I will return them to thee."
"Perhaps this means that there is more yet to be discovered. I shall certainly continue my search."
"Thy friend -- the master of song and mirth -- must be found before thou dost venture on."
"Only by renouncing thy friend and patron, the ruler who sent thee here, canst thou hope to continue on."
"Why, that is unthinkable! I have never heard of such a preposterous thing!"
"'Tis my duty to transcribe and care for the prophecies of Xenka."
"It was I that found the passages that told of thy coming."
"She foretold the storms that brought thee to our land, and saw the end of the world."
"Those who believed in her visions banded together to study her words so that we might help avert the fate she foresaw."
"I know not... Though I would hazard a guess that it refers to the forces of good and evil."
"Alas, Xenka's writings follow no order and are convoluted and vague."
"I always thought that she had discovered some way to ensure that she would live to see her prophecies revealed. Though I know not how."
"The events in the prophecies are wild and connected by no frame that we have been able to discover..."
"'Great storms, the containers of hope smashed, lost love forgiven and restored' -- we still seek their meanings."
"'Tis also written that treachery will stalk thy steps at the beginning of thy quest. That is why I am here..."
"Not all of Xenka's followers believe that we should take direct action in aiding thee. However, Thoxa and I disagree."
"I believe that an attempt will be made on thy life soon. Perhaps, by being forewarned, thou wilt be able to avoid it."
"But, now that thou art here, feel assured that I will remain vigilant against anything that would deter thee from thy destiny."
"We have quite a collection of diverse books and scrolls -- all meant to help us aid thee on thy quest."
"Feel free to look at anything in the library, even if I am attending to my chores."
"Poetry, astronomical observations, tide charts, and maps... Everything that might provide some insight into the meaning of the prophecies."
"We have no maps to aid thee, I fear. But I know that there is a book describing the old temples here in the abbey."
"It is written in the Ophidian runes, of course. But thou canst use the Lens of Translating to aid thee in reading it."
"Go thou and find it. I am certain that it will help thee."
"We have no maps to aid thee, I fear. But I know that there is a book describing the old temples in the abbey."
"It is written in the Ophidian runes, of course. But thou canst use the Lens of Translating to aid thee in reading it."
"Go thou and find it. I am certain that it will help thee."
"We have berries, pumpkins and other vegetables. Thou mayest take some, if thou dost wish."
"Thou must not enter this door without thy three stalwart companions, Hero from Another World!"
"It matters not if any others venture with thee, but through this portal the four must pass!"
"I shall act as a channel for the power to restore thy group as it should be."
"We meet again. Thy destiny draws near quickly... How may I be of service to thee?"
"Thou mayest tarry with us for as long as thou dost wish, but remember... The Sands of Time wait for no one, not even thee."
"He remains a prisoner out of time, imprisoned within the Shrine that is his home."
"Xenka disappeared several centuries ago. No one knows where she went."
"However, in her writings, Xenka hath promised to return to us when the end is near. She will then guide us once more."
"Within the Hourglass of Fate lie the Sands of Time. As each grain doth fall, so doth another moment hasten us to our doom."
"If thou dost fail in thy quest, our world will end... ripped apart by the storms and earthquakes that doth now plague it."
"If thou dost fail in thy quest, our world will end... ripped apart by the earthquakes that will soon plague it."
"Such visitors are rare, for the journey here is not an easy one. As I remember it, Gwenno was our last visitor."
"Such visitors are rare, for the journey here is not an easy one. As I remember it, our last visitor was poor Gwenno."
"Such visitors are rare, for the journey here is not an easy one. As I remember it, our last visitor was that woman, Gwenno."
"I hope to speak with Gwenno about her time with the Ice People. It would be most instructive, I am sure."
"'Tis a pity to see her so undone. I hope that thou canst find a way to restore her to her proper state of mind soon."
"I had hoped to be able to speak with her about her time with the Ice People. It would be most instructive, I am sure."
"They used to come to us for everything from healing arts to weather predictions. Of course, that was before the storms began."
"I must return to Monk Isle."
"Oh, thank thee, kind monk!"
"We mourn with thee, Hero From Another World, for this purposeless death of the girl once known as Cantra."
"We shall take her lifeless body to Monk Isle, where perhaps we can restore life where death doth now reign."
"Continue on thy quest. Trouble not thyself for this girl, as we shall do all that is possible for her."
"I am but a humble monk. I can be of no help to thee in any way, I fear."
"Oh! One of thy friends hath met an untimely end. This should not be..."
"If thou art ready to see thy friend again, thou dost have but to ask and I will return them to thee."
"I no longer believe in names. Doth the corn in the field have a name? Canst thou hear the cry of the corn?"
"There are unseen energies which permeate the worlds. A monk within the Order of Xenka seeks to attune himself with these ethereal vapors."
"In mine own case -- I being but the least of these, my brethren -- I can draw upon the Power of the Void to foster the growth of plants."
"Xenka the Seer is the greatest of us all."
"Xenka was the greatest of us all."
"It was she who mastered the Energies of the Void, until at last she was no longer of this world."
"Xenka is our exemplar -- we all would harness the Powers as she did."
"I am unable to speak further -- I am incapable of expressing all that Xenka is and was."
"And now she hath returned! The Seer hath come back from beyond the Void."
"Thou shouldst speak to Monk Draxta, if thou desirest to perceive the mystery of Xenka."
"Corn is at the center of the kingdom of vegetables."
"Corn is tall and green, king of the grasses, and its fruit is sweet when roasted."
"I seek to find union with the corn. I am a Child of the Corn."
"In order to become one with the soil, I have been granted the task of nurturing the crops."
"Our harvest is varied. There are ochre berries in the spring, corn in the summer, and walnuts in the fall."
"We also nurture many root crops, and make flour from their tubers."
"Now the fields are dying, as the blight spreads throughout the land. The storms leach the life from the land, and the crops fail."
"But the crops have not been healthy, not since the strange storms afflicted the island."
"Thou mayest partake of any of the fruits and vegetables on this island, so long as thou dost not indulge in gluttony."
"Thou art not the first to come to this isle in search of the Mandrakes, for the plant is the source of powerful magic."
"There is a supply of roots in mine hut, if thou needest any."
"Please take all that thou needest, for Mandrakes grow only in the swamps, and are exceedingly rare elsewhere."
"The Mandrakes are only found in the swamplands, and only when the salt tides are right."
"I have only dried roots in my supply -- if thou desirest fresh roots, thou must go into the swamp when the tides are right."
"The tides are in convergence. If thou desirest Mandrake Roots, thou must hasten to the swamplands."
"The tides have gone. It will be many days before the roots can again be gathered."
"The Mandrake Roots only appear when the tides are right -- otherwise, they lay beneath the mud and cannot be seen."
"Now is not the time, but the tides will soon be in -- precisely when, I cannot predict."
"I could tell thee when the tides were right, if thou dost ask later."
"Mandrakes grow only in certain swamps, of which there is one on this isle."
"Due to the dangers of the magical storms, the ships no longer come."
"Only thou, the Stranger from Another World, canst visit us now."
"Therefore, no one can take the Mandrake Roots to the mages of Moonshade."
"There is certain to be a grave shortage of reagents in that city soon."
"I tremble before the Hero from Another World! Thou art even as Xenka said!"
"Welcome again, Hero from Another World! Thy destiny hath again brought thee to the place of Xenka's wisdom!"
"My name is insignificant, oh great one. I am but a shadow in thy destiny and the glory of Xenka."
"But, if thou wilt suffer to call me by name, I am Draxta."
"A work of divine wisdom, certainly! It is where Xenka inscribed all of her visions."
"Thou mayest find the book here in the Chapel, upon the altar."
"Thou mayest find the book upon the altar within the Chapel."
"I shall not seek to befriend thee, as I have no wish to bring about the end of the world!"
"Xenka's visions were of the world's end, oh great one."
"It is written that 'If the Hero from Another World doth fail, the world shall shudder unto death.'"
"Xenka saw that the one hope for our world was that A Hero from Another World would sail a ship upon dry land."
"Thoxa hath told us that thy ship was found beyond the shore. And thou wert accompanied by three fine companions, as foretold."
"Xenka was a very wise woman, oh great one. Divine visions came to her to warn us of the end of our world."
"It was she who foresaw thy coming in the Place of Visions. Though she never told us that she foresaw leaving us..."
"This is the Place of Visions, Hero. Thou dost stand on hallowed ground."
"I recall the last night we ever saw Xenka... I was there for her last three visions. Wouldst thou like me to show thee a vision?"
"Journey to the Place of Visions, and I shall meet thee there."
"As thou wishest. But bear in mind that the visions may be of aid to thee."
"It was a dreadful blow, oh great one, when we could not find her in any place we searched."
"Thy friend Gwenno doth not seem right, oh great one."
"Karnax could divine what ails her, to be certain."
"Karnax hath made an exhaustive study of the history of the Serpent people. He can tell thee most anything about them."
"The Serpent people dwelt in this land long before our forefathers settled here. I do not know what happened to them, but Karnax might."
"Silence, please! We shall now listen to the song of the Void, which whispers of events both past and present..."
"Let us move closer to the great wall..."
"Let the bells ring... for Xenka hath returned!!!"
"And you, my rock-brained monks! Is this how you serve my visions?! You cannot even take the words down properly!"
"I knew that thou wouldst need me to unravel the mess that these monks have made of my prophecies."
"There is no time left! Go to Sunrise Isle!"
"Oh! One of thy friends hath met an untimely end. This should not be..."
"If thou art ready to see thy friend again, simply ask and I will return them to thee."
"I knew that if I did not promise to return that these laggard monks would drift away from the task I set them."
"As it is, they have nearly brought disaster upon us all... including thee, Hero from Another World."
"They were to watch for thine arrival, oh mighty Hero, and prepare the people for the approaching danger."
"I think that magical storms and earthquakes qualify as ample danger, but then I am not a Hero."
"By hopelessly miring my visions in the bog of high and mighty language, they have delayed thee until it is nearly too late."
"I am a blunt, plain-spoken woman, noble Hero. Too plain for those who wanted to feel that they followed the words of some holy sage."
"Better to try and stand beneath a falling boulder and command it to stop."
"Do not thy companions dear to thine heart call thee Avatar?"
"Art thou not from a strange land that thou dost call Earth?"
"I think then that thou dost indeed fit the title of Hero from Another World."
"I have never seen this wondrous land. I have only felt its presence upon the edge of the Void."
"But I have felt great tides of power being directed toward it."
"I cannot explain how it was that I got there, or even that it is not empty..."
"Thou couldst not grasp it. For it encompasses countless worlds and draws power from the life-forces of each one. It is... amazing!"
"I have no name for what that power was. I know not if the intent was hostile or good."
"I only felt the power move, as a swimmer feels the currents within a stream."
"I was a wife, and a mother, Hero. I did not ask to become a prophetess."
"Arrogant manipulators! Never once did they attempt to divine if my visions were true!"
"Never once did they offer to try and cure my supposed madness, for we were too poor to pay their fees."
"Is it any wonder that they could not stand to live within the rule of an honest man?!"
"Surely thou knowest of whom I speak... For he is the ruler that sent thee to meet thy fate here."
"I can see that thou art unsure of how to progress, great Hero... That is why I am here."
"Return here if thou art unsure of how to proceed. I shall guide thee in some small fashion."
"Take this Serpent's Tooth... Thou must seek the Dead on the Isle of Crypts."
"Use the tooth that I have given thee! Seek the Dead on the Isle of Crypts."
"Good, thou hast the tooth that will take thee to Sunrise Isle!"
"Without the proper armaments, thou canst not seek the wisdom of the dead. Seek the Staff of the Serpent within the bowels of Furnace."
"Do not tarry overlong in thy goodbyes to thy friends, Hero. Our land has little time left for sentiment."
"As I had feared, the imbalance hath grown too powerful..."
"Thou must draw straws to see who the Monitor crematorium awaits."
"Go quickly! The end is at hand!"
"Rabindrinath releases his anger by troubling the thoughts of those who venture here within their dreams."
"I know many songs..." ~"Dost thou wish to hear one I have already sung?" ~"Or dost thou wish to hear a new song?"
"I'm sorry... ~Thou hast heard all of my songs."
"For those with an adventurous spirit, I can tell thee of the northern savages."
"For those who wish to hear of a lost civilization, I can tell thee of the people who left the ruins on this continent."
"For those who would hear a tale of bitter bravery, I can tell thee of the lost king."
"None can say if they are intelligent." ~"They build no structures and speak no recognizable language."
"There is also a song about the northern savages. ~Wouldst thou care to hear it?"
"All right, then..."
"Perhaps some other time, then."
"There is a song about the lady." ~"Wouldst thou care to hear it?"
"It is a sad ballad indeed..."
"Another time, then."
"There is a song about the other castle, as well." ~"Wouldst thou care to hear it?"
"Prepare thyselves..."
"Another time, then."
"I believe that thou hast already heard that one." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"My pleasure..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"I hope thou dost enjoy it..."
"I seem to remember singing this for thee before..." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"One more time, then..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"Relax and be at ease..."
"I'm certain that thou hast before..." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"As thou wishest..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"I do hope I remember it..."
"I fear that thou dost already know this one..." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"Thou canst sing along if thou wishest..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"I think I am in the right key..."
"I have done this one for thee before..." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"Very well..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"Thou wilt like the tempo on this one..."
"Thou knowest this one..." ~"Wouldst thou like to hear it again?"
"I am cheered in that thou dost like it..."
"Perhaps I could find another song for thee..."
"Listen carefully..."
"Thou dost know that Filbercio is lower than swine..." ~"He doth deserve to be tortured for all the ill that he hath done."
"Help me, Please! I beseech thee..." *"I cannot survive much more of this..." *"Uunnggghhh!"
"Do not meddle in that which thou dost not understand, hero!" ~"I am the MageLord, and this man is evil."
"He hath destroyed the lives of many." ~"He doth deserve to be tortured for all the ill that he hath done."
"Help me, Please! I beseech thee... It is he who is evil, not I." *"I cannot survive much more of this torture..."
"Avatar, when next we meet I shall wear thine eyeballs for earrings!"
"Avatar, when our paths cross once more I shall chop thee into little pieces and feed them to the dogs!"
"Why hast thou disturbed my slumber?"
"Back, creature of the undead! Thou art a thing of evil!"
"Foolish mortal! The time hath come to relieve thee of the burden of thy life for it is also my time to feed!"
"That despicable interloper Mortegro interfered with mine experiments, and betrayed me to the Council of Mages!"
"Ha! He is the most despised one of all! He broke our alliance and betrayed me to the Council of Mages!"
"Bah! They concern me not!"
"Avatar, do not trust him!"
"Do not bargain with this devil, Avatar!"
"Avatar, thou must refuse!"
"I knew thou couldst not resist a chance at such power!" *"Take this scroll. It will vanquish any foe who threatens thee."
"Then thou dost leave me no choice!"
"Thou hast sealed thy fate for no mere mortal can defeat me! Prepare for thy death!"
"The Avatar will not accept thine offer, foul fiend!"
"Thou art wasting thy fetid breath making the Avatar such an offer!"
"Thou wilt not accept this ghoul's offer, wilt thou, Avatar?"
"So, Avatar, wilt thou listen to the whimperings of thy companions, or trade their life for thine own?"
"True, they do not compare to thee, but I am not too selective in my tastes. One flesh is as good as another when one hungers."
"Well, I certainly do not intend to go along with this at all!"
"Avatar, how couldst thou?! Thou canst forget all about this idea!"
"This is not funny in the least, Avatar."
"A pity! Then what I do not receive willingly, I will have to take by force!"
"Hasten! The Imbalance grows stronger..."
"His mission here is finished. He may now depart for the Void."
"Look into the Moons' Eye."
"Thou hast forgotten something."
"Place the Staff, Armour, and Crown on the Altar."
"Return when thou hast the Three Artifacts of the Great Hierophant: Staff, Armour, and Crown."
"The Blackrock Serpents... thou must have the three Serpents of Blackrock."
"Thou art in Balance, having mastered both Chaos and Order. I declare thee worthy to bear the emblems of the Great Hierophant of Balance."
"Now place the Eyes of the Serpent before my statue."
"Slay me! Slay me with the Serpent Sword, and send my soul back into the Void!"
"Seek the Temple, and within it, the Eye of the Moon."
"Free Gwenno... free her from the ice!"
"Time is short. Move on."
"The wizard... the key is the dead wizard... thou must vanquish him."
"The ashes... place the Ashes on the altar."
"Bane of Chaos... Chaos Bane... twisted her soul..."
"A new Hero has entered this world... am I dreaming, or is he real?"
"Who art thou, stranger? Why can't I see thee? Curse this Imbalance which veils my mind..."
"I know that we have met before, Stranger. Dost thou not recall?"
"Seek the Horn... the Gwani Horn... seek it in the depths beneath the Skullcrusher Mountains."
"Pleasant dreams, Avatar..."
"Ha ha hah hah!"
"See how I reward those who fail me!"
"Hah hah hah hah!"
"I have paid my debt to thee, and our bargain is concluded. I shall not aid thee again. Beware the Banes of Chaos, Avatar!"
"Dost thou think that thou canst chain the Serpent of Order within a prison of Balance? Never! Servants of Order, attack!"
"Look at how quickly it has grown! It looks as if it has been here for decades!"
"Ye aren't what I expected. But who am I to know what a pawn of prophecy looks like?"
"Hey ho! It's good to see ye again! Found yer way out of that there maze, huh? Somethin' tricky, weren't it?"
"Never saw any use fer it meself. I kin make me own light... Wit'out mussin' up me hair! Ha!"
"I think ye missed somethin' ye might find real helpful-like."
"Never did get on too well wit' cats..."
"I think ye might want ta talk wit' that there cat critter. He needs a friend, unless I miss my guess."
"Ye might say that I'm a part o' yer prophecy... One o' yer guides like."
"So here I am! I kin give ye three hints ta help ye on yer way. So listen well."
"I'll tell ye straight on that it'd be easier iffin ye turned an went back to that there keep right now. So do ye want yer hints or not?"
"An' now, before I let ye go, deary, I'll warn ye again... Do not take anyone inta that there maze wit' ye. No two see this place the same."
"Well now, perhaps ye be more wise than ol' Drusilla gave ye credit for. Go back ta the keep. This is no place fer ye."
"Why even those benighted idiots, the Ophidians, knew ta expect ye. So it can't be such a shock ta ye."
"I follow the Guide, meself, an' it's enough that I be 'ere ta meet ye ta tell ol' Drusilla whose pot is cracked an' whose isn't."
"Well now, deary, iffin I told ye what it were I'd jus' take the fun outta it fer ye. So ye go back an' have a look see fer yerself."
"I can't go a tellin' ye ever'thing, deary. Iffin yer ta be this 'ere pawn of prophecy ye'll jus' have ta figger it out yerself."
"Mercy! This has taken far longer than I thought! Ye should be on yer way now..."
"Thou shouldst mind thy manners, else -- Guide or no -- I'll not aid thee!"
"How canst thou be so trusting? How hast thou lived so long?"
"People are killing each other over a difference in philosophies! And thou art parading about as if no one wouldst make thee a target!"
"Ah well, I can't expect thee to understand. Never mind."
"But those in the keep refuse to acknowledge that there are others that follow other paths. Fools!"
"Ophidians are those who follow the Teachings of the Serpents."
"The values of the Ophidians are called the Teachings. Got it?"
"Until they murdered him that is. THEN they started killing each other. Have to do things right, I guess..."
"Who knows? Who cares? They've been trying to destroy each other ever since."
"I never said that thou needs must like me. I said that I had to aid thee. Dost thou wish to hear it or not?"
"Press first the middle button, and then the top button. Press the south button last and thou shalt be free."
"Then why dost thou waste my time?! Go back to those fool Ophidians, where thou dost belong!"
"If I had given up, how would I have been able to help thee?"
"They are the people that hold the keep. Quite warlike, really. I don't have much to do with them..."
"Personally, I think that anyone possessing that much power is a bad idea."
"If thou art going to restore Balance thou wilt have to act quickly."
"And now that they have created the automatons, they may succeed."
"Pull every other lever down to break free of the trap."
"Perhaps, after thou hast completed thy task, I couldst think of a way for thee to make it up to me."
"Let us just say that thou dost inspire me... I can promise thee that I shall be... creative."
"Quickly! Surround Batlin!"
"Cease thy jesting, Avatar! We have serious work to do!!"
"Pleasant dreams."
"Please, I beg thee to stop this or thou wilt anger my master...."
"Cease and desist immediately!"~~"Dost thou wish to avoid the unpleasantries of a lengthy trial?"
"What is thy liberty worth?"
"Cease and desist immediately, ruffian!"
"Wilt thou come quietly?"
"Very well. Thou shalt remain in prison until we see fit to release thee."
"An unfortunate decision, my friend."
"Oh, I see. Carry on, carry on."
Within my pages lie the bridges to the great chasms. When thou dost reach the great pillars, stand between them and read my words once more.
"Then we shall have to work together..."
"The Guide shall make our aim true! The Guide shall lead the way to our truly perfect world!"
Day 24: Still looking for the miser's treasure.
Day 31: Very stormy weather and worse at night.
Day 32: Uneventful except for repairs from last night's storm.
Day 40: This hideout is not easy to find. The men are becoming nervous.
Day 41: Ice filling the horizon! Temperature hath dropped.
Day 45: Strange how ice magnifies all.
Day 54: Was forced to hang a brace of men who stole some food from the cook.
Day 56: We are wedged in by an icefloe. Food is running low.
Day 57 Much arguing about rations.
Day 22 -- We were forced to kill a pair of wolves near the encampment.
Day 28 -- The men are upset that no gold hath been found...
Day 40 -- Finding more wolves than gold.
Day 45 -- Women and children are finding gold nuggets.
Day 69 -- More have been eaten alive.
Day 108 -- No one can be trusted.
Day 121 -- Something horrible happened to Hamlin.
Day 167 -- More men are fighting amongst themselves.
If a maid did not blow up the bellows.
If a maid did not hold up the wick.
To drive the blade up to the hilt.
And make sure that it doesn't grow stale.
I'd be a hen, and I'd have a good lay.
I'd suck out their juices and chew on their meat.
I'd be an egg and lie under their breasts.
Reader, for thy sake and thy thirst for knowledge, I have decided to provide thee with the following accounts.
The source of all extra life resides in the Power Generator.
Dear reader, make of mine experiments what thou wilt.
Let us begin, for I am losing track of what thou art interested in.
The more I would experiment with it, the closer I would come to success.
That was mine intuition. Well, I must admit it did not work.
Yes, indeed, how? Oh! I remember, thou hast only to crush it into a fine powder.
It might make possible the spells to flay men's minds, or set swords into dancing death, or to decimate entire cities.
Herein, I did give thee all thou wilt ever need to know.
So much to learn from this land, I am overcome with joy. So much to learn about its fauna and flora, I must start early in the morning.
Tonight sleep is not to be found. I must go out, explore and meet the creatures of the night.
I am still amazed at the variety and abundance of wildlife.
As often as not, I would run into a monster or an unknown species.
Found some ruins not too far from here.
Today, I encountered a strange white-haired creature from the icy lands; it seemed to be a cross between Man and Beast.
Those jealous mages stole some secrets and powers from me.
They want the Teeth, I am certain of it! I shall have to take up residence on some isle, where they cannot find me...
I stood all night working on a few formulas.
Dawn already. What a chill bleak morning.
Need to throw more wood in the fire.
Today, icy blew the winds from beyond the Frozen Lands.
If this lasts I will have to make more dried meat.
Food is low. Need more firewood.
The day passed rather rapidly, uneventfully.
I can almost taste the salt breeze from the sea.
Thou wilt learn how to read a book and how to fight intelligently in our worlds.
On the other hand, carnivorous creatures attack the weakest opponent.
Some creatures will attack at random or toward the weakest party member.
The magic armour type is almost twice as effective in protecting thee as the antique one.
Antique armour includes leather, metal scales, chain mail and metal plates. The sturdier the material, the greater the protection.
Leather armour, boots, collar, gloves and helm offer the least protection. On the other hand, they will be the lightest.
Plate armour offers solid protection for thy money. I would recommend a pair of plate leggings as well.
Find the best weapon and armour thou canst obtain.
Remember all weapons ought to be kept ready for immediate use.
The reason that I wrote such a treatise is to sharpen thy fighting skills, but thou canst tell that is not a goal in itself.
Divide dough into two halves and roll each piece into a 9 by 14 inch rectangle. Brush lightly with melted butter.
Frosting:~ Frost with a mixture of confectioner's sugar (1 1/2 cup) and 5 teaspoons of milk.
Be also wary of those who weave spells, for they have no courage, and the cowardly weave webs of deceit, lies, and trickery.
A courageous man knows that one can leave the battlefield only two ways: By eliminating all of the enemies or in death.
Heh, heh, heh.
"Fascinating. This key refuses to be added to the key ring."
"Avatar! This bottle is identical to the one from which thou didst drink at the inn in Monitor!"
"'Tis a bottle of Fawnish ale."
"I cannot help but think that this strange bottle must be a clue as to the identity of Monitor's traitor."
"Perhaps if we can find whom this bottle doth belong to, we shall find our traitor!"
"Oh, mindest thou not."
"Snakes! Why did it have to be snakes? Why could not Lord British have sent thee somewhere akin to 'Daisy Isle' instead?"
"Perhaps thou didst speak too soon, my friend..."
"A hall of sleeping gargoyles..."
"'Tis reminiscent of the problems that are occurring in Britannia this very instant!"
"A hall of sleeping Daemons..."
"I must stay awake..."
"We must stay awake..."
"We are attacked again! Now that we have the gold, I think that it is time for me to use my Blink Ring to escape."
"I shall see thee at the inn!"
"Oh, the pain... The end is near..."
"Me name's Fitch. Me and me mates were trappers for Hazard."
"Several days ago we were camped in a nearby cave when we were attacked by a terrible sorceress."
"I am glad thou didst find me. I'd have hated to have died out here alone..."
"Aaargh! I cannot keep pace with thee! My chest feels as though it shall soon explode!"
"Kylista, the levers have been set, and the traitor's fate is sealed..."
"Wait, thou art not Kylista!"
"So, thou hast found out our little scheme, hast thou?"
"I'm certain that thou hadst help from thy companions to come this far, girl."
"Thou shouldst have understood -- a woman cannot be left to control a city! They have not the brains for such matters!"
"Of course, I can never allow thee to leave this chamber alive..."
"Traitor! Foul murderer! Thou didst kill my Beatrix, faithless liar!"
"Thou shalt see the power of the King of the White Dragon!"
"I am the King of the White Dragon!"
"I shall protect thee... I shall take thee beyond all mortal concerns -- into my kingdom of death!"
"Come and see the freak show, Avatar!"
"Want to try some spinning..."* "...and dying, Avatar?"
"Want to sing an opera, Avatar?"
"Welcome to mine own private shooting gallery, Avatar."
"I had almost tired of waiting for thee, Avatar. Thou'rt some hero... it took thee long enough."
"Hurry, Avatar, I am waiting for thee..."
"Thou'rt not here to sleep, Avatar."
"I never thought to see this again!"
"I do not know what changes were made after I left, Avatar. But perhaps this will help."
"'Tis just as well... I do not know what changes were made after I left. It probably would not help."
"I seem to recall that there was a secret entrance to the west..."
"'Tis a pity that so much hath changed without my being here..."
"So, thou didst finally think to return, King? It is too late! All are dead, the Goblins conquered all..."
"Here is where my body did lie, until the Goblins pillaged the tomb..."
"I died of a broken heart, waiting for thy return..."
"Welcome to the Castle of King Shamino, the Betrayer! Let me greet thee..."
"I am Xenka. Thou must take this Serpent Sword and go to Sunrise Isle."
"I am undone -- I am outside the Temple, and now the years burden me..."
"Take the Chaos Stone from my dead body... it shall be the token that thou needest to summon the shade..."
"The body lies in the garden of the Temple of Enthusiasm, in the northeast by the Gate of the Serpent..."
"Now I go into the Void!"
"It seems that I cannot put the serpent in the slot. Perhaps I should step up a level..."
"Fool! Thou art too late. Now I shall enter the Wall of Lights and become immortal!"
"Then I shall return to destroy thy mortal soul!"
"Wait... No! The wall is not opening for me! This cannot be!"
"No... The banes, they have... Oh, what have I done!"
"I have been tricked! Avatar! I beseech thee! Help me before..."
"I am Anarchy! Hahaha!"
"The world shall quail before me! Wrong shall become right! And right shall become lost! Nothing shall escape my touch!"
"Hahaha! I am the Wantonness Bane!"
"Wherever I pass, people shall frolic and sate their wild desires! I shall drive thee to feed thy darkest hungers!"
"I -- hahaha! -- am the Insanity Bane! Hahaha!"
"Not so fast, deary! Ye don't think that ye kin just dance outta here with that little seed so easy, now do ye?"
"And who will stop me, hag? Thou?"
"Hag, now is it?! Well, we shall see about that, deary!"
"I don't know about thee, Drusilla, but I think that lout would do well as a candlestick. What thinkest thou?"
"With such a bright wit, I think it would be fitting indeed!"
"One would think that a pawn of prophecy would be... I don't know, more intelligent!"
"We did pass through an illusionary wall to enter. Might there be another leading from this place to somewhere else?"
"We did pass through an illusionary wall to enter that cave. Might there be another leading deeper inside the mountain?"
"Thou wert wise to pick up that bedroll. Now we can sleep well anywhere."
"A bedroll! With this, thou wilt sleep well anywhere."
"I'll wager that chest is locked. Thou shouldst try thy lockpicks on it."
"Lockpicks work on locked doors, too. Of course, we only use them for virtuous reasons -- the Avatar is no common thief!"
"I'll wager that chest is locked. If we had lockpicks, however, we could open it!"
"They work on locked doors, too. Of course, we only use them for virtuous reasons -- the Avatar is no common thief!"
"Nice day we're having, isn't it."
"I see a scroll. Perhaps it contains clues about this place, or counsel for our future adventurings."
"Thou wert wise to collect that scroll, Avatar. It probably contains clues which will be useful to us later."
"Thou wert wise to pick up that torch! We need all that we can find, for they do not burn for long."
"No doubt we shall be in many strange dungeons before our adventure is over..."
"Let us take that torch! We need all that we can find, for they do not burn for long."
"No doubt we shall be in many strange dungeons before our adventure is over..."
"That seems alike to the bow I did lose to the magical storm!"
"And we are carrying an animal's skull, given to us by the strange storm -- it must have changed places with my bow!"
"Look at the size of that skeleton! Perhaps that skull thou hast doth match to these bones."
"This is the architecture I have seen throughout Serpent Isle, but where are the signs of destruction? These are not ruins, they are new!"
"Reef the sails an' hang on! There be one of those damned storms a bearin' down on us! Heavens help us!"
"I'll not even attempt to make the Arabella seaworthy until these blasted storms are over!"
"If ye be wantin' Captain Hawk, I'll be at the bottom of a mug at the Blue Boar Inn."
"I'm not so easily defeated, friend monk..."
"Hero, listen to me before the fires consume me! Beware of thy friends -- they shall only bring destruction upon thee!"
"Karnax is defeated, for now... I am weak, and must leave..."
"Remember to seek out the Three Companions -- they must be at thy side!"
"The writings of Xenka speak of the Three which shall travel with thee. Without them, thou canst not succeed."
"Thou must find them, Hero! And then never let them leave thy side..."
"And watch for the Ring, Necklace and Earring -- for by these, the Power shall guide thee."
"Thou must also seek three artifacts -- a Ring, a Necklace, and an Earring."
"Through these ancient items, a Power shall communicate with thee. More than this, I know not."
"I saw that! A red bolt of energy, it was!"
"Did anyone see that color? To be honest, I did not. The flash near blinded me!"
"What a strange color -- a greenish bolt, I'd say."
"What pleasant music! 'Tis strangely soothing... I could stand here for hours and listen to it..."
"Surely it would not hurt to tarry for a bit..."
"Wine! Praise the Virtues! I could use a drink right now..."
"Come, let us toast our friendship and hope for a speedy end to this journey!"
"Look! A wondrous gem! This would easily buy enough provisions to last the entire quest!"
"Or think what a fine gift this would be for Lord British! He would be impressed, to be sure."
"I have not seen food this rich in a long time! The aroma is marvelous!"
"'Twould be a shame for all this to go to waste..."
"Perhaps something more needs to be done."
"Alyssand, we are told that thou hast often been seen in the company of the accused traitor. What things hath he asked of thee?"
"I remember that we spoke of the strange storms, and other such things..."
"Thou art holding back something..."
"Alyssand, beware! The Oracle is the instrument of divine Truth, and it shall not be mocked!"
"What did the strangers ask of thee, Alyssand? There was a particular item..."
"Well, yes... mine engagement ring, which was lost..."
"In fact, the traitor had thy missing jewelry! So the Beast hath taught him to steal... using Daemonic powers, I suspect..."
"I have no further questions. I thank thee."
"Good day, Delin... Ah, the Oracle is the other way."
"What... Oh! Forgive me, milords and ladies."
"Tell me, Delin, hast thou ever met the accused?"
"Good day, uh... Voldin. Met who?"
"The man standing in that box, right in front of thee. Hast thou ever met him?"
"Handsome lad... I do not recall him. Dost thou think he would be a worthy suitor for mine Alyssand?"
"Uh... I do not think so, Delin."
"I renounce any further questions! I thank thee, Delin. Thou mayest go."
"And now I would like to call..."
"Delin, go to thy seat please."
"Yes, of course... Captain."
"Given that the weight of evidence seems overwhelming, perhaps we should spare the defendant from further embarrassment."
"Avatar, what dost thou recommend?"
"I would hear the full weight of the testimony against me, Lady Yelinda."
"Very well. Thou mayest resume, Captain Voldin."
"I believe no purpose would be served by continuing this charade, Lady Yelinda."
"Do not mock the Oracle, stranger."
"Captain Voldin, let us bring this session of the trial to an end."
"Delphynia, did the accused meet with thee?"
"Yes, Captain. He came with his accomplice, who was seeking a certain magical leaf..."
"Aha! And what didst thou conclude from this?"
"Perhaps from his association with the Beast! How sinister..."
"I have no more questions. Many thanks for thy service, Delphynia. Return to thy seat, if thou wilt."
"Yes, indeed. He came into the Broken Oar -- most people do, thou knowest. Asked me a great number of questions."
"About the usual sorts of things -- the weather, the goblin threat, and so forth?"
"Not at all, Captain! He had so many questions."
"He did ask me about strange objects, such as I had never heard of. They weren't normal items, sir!"
"He asked me about the bloodthirsty savages that live in the far north -- had a grisly interest in the tale, I might add."
"The ruins left by the Daemons who once dwelt in this land?"
"Yes, captain. The Serpent Ruins."
"Thou mayest go, Jendon..."
"How can I help thee, Great Captain?"
"I will not detain thee from thy duty overlong, commander."
"I did see them, Captain, even if they did not see me. It is my business to watch strangers."
"How wouldst thou characterize such behavior?"
"Peculiar, lord. Almost as if the man were hunting for something."
"No more questions..."
"Forgive my presumption, Kylista. As the Priestess of Beauty, thy powers are absolute within this Temple."
"However, thy certain knowledge concerning this traitor is vital if the Oracle is to hear a complete accounting."
"So they did not seem to have a true appreciation of Beauty?"
"Beauty lies in the eye of the beholder..."
"Quiet in the Temple! Thou wilt not speak unless questioned."
"Forgive the interruption, Captain Voldin."
"No forgiveness necessary. I thank thee for performing thy duty."
"And now, Priestess, please continue thy witness."
"I believe that The Fellowship is an invention of Beast British, by which he means to destroy us!"
"Thy vigilance will be our salvation, Priestess. Many thanks for responding to mine unusual summons."
"I have no wish to cause disunity in thy city, Captain. I only wish that thou wouldst come to trust me."
"Confine thyself to my questions only, please."
"He came to the Fellowship camp. We spoke privately."
"Enough! Leave our fair city now."
"Take no hope that thou wilt remain any longer than necessary for thee to speak before the Oracle."
"I have hope for only one thing, Captain. And that dwells deep within mine heart, as Delphynia knows..."
"Do not digress! Now, I am told that thou hast been seen speaking with the accused traitor..."
"Yes, Captain. I asked a favor of him, to deliver a document for me."
"No! 'Twas a letter to my beloved Delphynia..."
"Return to thy camp."
"Art thou a follower of this Fellowship, Scots?"
"I'm a geographer, sir. And a sailor. Though I was brought here by The Fellowship to study this land, I do not practice their beliefs."
"However, I see nothing wrong with The Fellowship. If anything, it seems that Leon speaks more of the truth than thine own Priestess."
"Heresy! Leave this Temple and never return to our fair city, upon pain of death!"
"And Lord British is no Daemon! He's a good man, and hath often commissioned me to create new maps for him..."
"Jorvin, if that man speaks another word, blast him with thy wand!"
"I had not expected to be called to witness, Captain Voldin. After all, I serve Lady Yelinda. Much of what I know is confidential."
"Yet the course of this trial could affect state security, chancellor. This man is accused of aiding a Daemon to overthrow our city!"
"I must defer to the Lady..."
"I don't see why thou couldst not speak freely, Zulith."
"I know! If thou art about to reveal some important secret, I shall signal thee by clapping sharply. Then thou shouldst be silent."
"Very well, Lady Yelinda."
"And what didst thou learn?"
"Watch thy words, Zulith! Or thou shalt have to reckon with me. I may be old, but I'm mean..."
"Voldin, thou dost extend thyself too far!"
"Please bear with me, Zulith. This is for the good of Fawn."
"Very well, but there is no reason for the Lady to take the stand. She may speak from where she is."
"Thou art most gracious, Lady. I shall make this brief..."
"Dost thou remember his precise words?"
"To be truthful, the discussion was so distasteful that I quickly put it from my mind."
"I believe he said -- Curse you all, and Beast British shall drink thy blood..."
"I thank thee for thy time, Lady Yelinda. Thou hast spoken fairly, as always."
"To be honest, he did not strike me as an honest man. Never cared much for bards. Louts, every one of them!"
"Well, I must say that I find him likable. He does his duty without blabbering all the time."
"Hard to believe a good man like Dupre would be in league with Daemon British..."
"Hard to say. He doth not talk much, and always seems to be in a hurry..."
"Couldn't say more than that. Merely an ordinary knave."
"Art thou daft? I said that I have never met the man. I can form no opinion."
"Yet all of our legends tell of this Beast British, and his crimes against our ancestors."
"I suppose I don't know what to believe -- pardon me, Kylista..."
"Forgive me. I have no questions for thee."
"Question me! I am ready. On what subject dost thou desire information?"
"He offends with every breath that comes out of his ugly face!"
"Why, thou art right, sailor. Nevertheless, I stand by my sworn testimony!"
"I may be drunk, but I'm not stupid..."
"Lest anyone be confused, let me state unequivocably that Daemons exist. Evil is real!"
"The tales of our forefathers -- about the Daemon King named British, and the lands he stole in the name of Virtue -- are literally true."
"Lastly, I have absolute faith in the Priestess of Beauty... wherever she may be. She is too beautiful to be wrong!"
"Forgive me. I have no questions for thee."
"Why hast thou brought me before the Oracle, Avatar? Ask me thy questions."
"Mayhaps, stranger. But nothing half so strange..."
"Indeed, the sage Batlin was also curious about the ruins."
"Ah, but thou dost tell that tale to everyone, Jendon. Thou canst not convict a man for listening to thy tales..."
"Yes, I did meet the scholar when she was here. A fine lady, of good temperament."
"I find it hard to believe that Iolo could be guilty of Daemonism, yet be wed to such a wonderful lady."
"But I fail to see any connection between that good lady, and this trial."
"A prince of a man! Why, when he breaks into song, I can hardly keep the crowds out of mine inn!"
"Such a man hardly sounds like the servant of Daemons, innkeeper."
"Aye. But then again, doth legend not claim that Daemons have silver tongues? This Iolo doth certainly have charm..."
"Doth Shamino not have the passions of a normal man, Jendon?"
"Perhaps. Or he may merely be driven by his cause. Shamino is far too serious."
"He can out-drink any man in this town, and I think he could out-fight nearly everyone except Jorvin!"
"I must admit, Dupre is a likable man. Hard to believe he's a tool of Beast British."
"Not having met the man, I have little to say about him. He needs a shave."
"Do I believe in Daemonism? Of course. My mother told me the legends when I was a mere child."
"Forgive me. I have no questions for thee."
"Hail to Beauty, and the omnipotence of the Oracle!"
"I shall answer thy questions truthfully, Avatar. Of what can I tell thee?"
"How do we know this to be true? I say that he lies!"
"He did strike me as a kindly man, of affable temperament. Good with children. Not the kind to consort with Daemons."
"He doth have honest eyes. He is a hard man to like, but I do not think he is a bad sort."
"He did try to steal a kiss from me!"
"Dupre doth have an evil heart. I'd not be surprised if he were in the service of Daemons."
"I do believe in Daemons. There is much evil in this world, and I do not believe that we cause it of ourselves."
"Our ancestors did beat the British by escaping to this land. Is it so incredible that the Daemon would want revenge?"
"We should be very afraid, all of us..."
"Forgive me. I have no questions for thee."
"Oh... I'm not used to standing in public like this... crowds make me nervous..."
"Let this be swift. Ask thy questions."
"That is what Alyssand said in her testimony -- that thy friend did return her engagement ring to her."
"Mighty nice of him, I say. He looks to be a good lad. Doth he need a wife?"
"I already have a wife, thank thee!"
"I'm afraid thy daughter is not lively enough for me, old man."
"This is not the time for idle chat, good man. My life is at stake!"
"He looks to be too old for my daughter, now that I see him clearly."
"When a man ages, he starts to lose his mind. Wouldn't want mine Alyssand to have to deal with someone like that..."
"Doth he not ever smile? He doth have the look of a convict, that's what I say."
"He looks like a fine lad, he doth."
"Very frightening. Don't care much for Daemons."
"Forgive me. I have no questions for thee."
"Hail to Lady Yelinda, Hail to the Oracle, hail to... hail to everyone!"
"I'm afraid he hath been drinking..."
"I drinks ta forget my pain, innkeeper. Go ahead, Avatar. Ask me thy questions."
"He looks like he hath had one too many tips of the bottle, if ya know what I mean."
"What a sourpuss! Wouldn't even share a glass of ale with me..."
"I love that man! Dupre, sing that drinking song thou didst teach me, the one about all the young ladies?"
"I don't think that would be advisable."
"I have my lute with me..."
"If all the young ladies were bricks in a pile,"
"I'd be a mason and lay them in style!"
"Roll thy leg over, roll thy leg over..."
"Zounds, man! In the earshot of Lady Yelinda? Hast thou no decency!"
"Don't believe I've met the man before."
"I used ta believe in that stuff. But what Beauty is there in the world for a sailor who cannot sail?"
"If the Oracle is so powerful, why did it not save us from the storms? Why did it let so many good men die?"
"Foul blasphemy! Hold thy tongue, rogue, or face the wrath of the Oracle."
"I may be a drunk, but I be an honest drunk. I shall follow no hypocrite ta a watery grave."
"Why do I drink so much? That's rather a personal question..."
"Why would a man who hath cheated death not drink, Avatar? Perhaps I should have died with my brothers..."
"Forgive me. I have no questions for thee."
"These were mine exact words, Lady -- All hail Lord British and the glory that is Britannia!"
"Beauty forbid! Thou hast spouted the blasphemy again!"
"He seems to be an unstable man. Sociable at one moment, and deranged in the next!"
"He frightens me. Look into those cold, hard eyes! Aren't those the eyes of a murderer?"
"This is a wild man, full of passions and lusts! I can feel his eyes on me now..."
"There is no doubt that Daemon British exists. I have seen the records left by previous generations."
"The Beast did conquer all of Sosaria, and did force the Fawnese to flee into the sea. How cruel!"
"I have always hated the Beast, and I always shall!"
"Forgive me. I have no questions for thee."
"I do not have to answer that question. This is a matter of state security."
"I don't have to answer thy questions, traitor!"
"The Oracle must hear all of the facts, if it is to decide fairly. Chancellor, I give my permission to speak of thy secrets."
"Ask me something else..."
"But thou didst not see him actually perform any vile acts?"
"He contacted Alyssand, madam! I saw them speaking together, and casting many sly glances in my direction."
"My daughter is not on trial here, chancellor..."
"Well... I suppose not..."
"Isn't it obvious? The bard is a light-minded man, disrespectful of proper authority! Iolo is not a man to be trusted."
"He possesses the grim silence of the professional executioner. Shamino never laughs. I find him to be disquieting..."
"Why, the man is a known drunkard, and a companion of thieves and cut-throats. Look at those he consorts with!"
"Dost thou not feel the sudden chill in this Temple, at the very mention of Beast British?"
"I tell thee, the Daemon exists, and his schemes to destroy Fawn can only be averted by the justice of the Oracle!"
"Forgive me. I have no questions for thee."
"$Temp1Flag was set to true."
"$Temp2Flag was set to true."
"$Temp3Flag was set to true."
"$Temp4Flag was set to true."
"We had just finished the tournament and were on our way to the list field door."
"The training flag was set."
"And, of course, the tournament flag was set."
"Moreover, the student was in the list fields."
"All right, thy time is over!"
"Ummm.... I cannot seem to find my keys. Thou mightest return later."
"Some other time, then."
"If thou canst not pay for our goods, please say so..."
"Our prices are fair here."
"Father must make some profit!"
"I am sure Father would be pleased with this price."
"Father must charge reasonably high prices or we will be made paupers!"
"I am disappointed. What of our bargain?"
"Father will be most upset to learn of this..."
"What dost thou say to this?"
"I am certain Father would not approve of such a deal."
"Perhaps another time, then."
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Our cellars are full, if thou dost change thy mind!"
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Do not tell Devra... She will think her son hath gone soft in the head for giving thee a price like this."
"Thou woolly-headed wolf! Thine head is fine. 'Tis thine heart that is soft..."
"Our prices are honest here at the Sleeping Bull!"
"Fair enough, if I do say so myself."
"With customers such as thou, I shall never make a profit..."
"With these troubled times, I must charge higher prices..."
"'Tis a shame I must charge high prices like this."
"I thought we had an agreement!"
"I have no time for this!"
"Dost thou take me for a fool?" ~"I do not have all day to stand and argue!"
"Mother, come and hear this! The customer jests with me!"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"As I have said, I serve and protect my master's household."
"As I have said, I serve and protect my master's household. I must work..."
"As I have said, I serve and protect my master's household. I do not have time for talk."
"As I have said, I serve and protect my master's household. This have I done for a great many years."
"Master Filbercio hath enchanted my feet to prevent them from clattering as I walk. He was greatly disturbed by the noise."
"As I have said, I serve and protect my master's household."
"I perform music for those who would listen. Music is a difficult art."
"And thou art indeed a master, musician automaton."
"There are some who say that when it comes to music, we automatons have a tin ear."
"That is patently untrue."
"I was making a humorous remark, musician."
"I do not understand humor, milady."
"There is much I have witnessed in these halls, but I am forbidden to speak of it."
"What dost thou wish?"
"Yes, master. I shall be thy servant."
"But I cannot, master."
"Yes, master."
"I have possessions which belong to thee."
"Thy companions are helping thee with this burden."
"One of thy belongings is now on the ground."
"They are thine once again."
"I have some of thy belongings in my possession. Wouldst thou like them returned?"
"Here they are."
"Thy companions will have to help thee carry some of these things."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, it shall go at thy feet."
"If that is what thou dost want, I will keep them for thee. Return when thou wantest them."
"To exchange coins, I ask for a small percentage of the money bartered. Dost thou agree to this charge?"
"What coinage dost thou desire?"
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for monetari?"
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 4 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 2 gold coins thou hast."
"I can give thee 10 monetari for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"I can give thee 100 monetari for any piece of jewelry thou hast."
"I can give thee 200 monetari for every gold bar thou hast."
"Wilt thou agree to my rate?"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for guilders?"
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 4 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 2 gold coins thou hast."
"I can give thee 30 guilders for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"I can give thee 300 guilders for any piece of jewelry thou hast."
"I can give thee 600 guilders for every gold bar thou hast."
"Wilt thou agree to my rate?"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for filari?"
"I can give thee 4 filari for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 4 filari for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 2 filari for every 1 gold coin thou hast."
"I can give thee 40 filari for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"I can give thee 400 filari for any piece of jewelry thou hast."
"I can give thee 800 filari for every gold bar thou hast."
"Wilt thou agree to my rate?"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for gold?"
"I can give thee 2 gold coins for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 2 gold coins for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 gold coin for every 2 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 20 gold coins for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"I can give thee 200 gold coins for any piece of jewelry thou hast."
"I can give thee 400 gold coins for every gold bar thou hast."
"Wilt thou agree to my rate?"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"Dost thou care to exchange more coins?"
"If that is what thou dost desire..."
"Thou art correct -- these prices are entirely too high!"
"Oh, well. But I have so enjoyed our conversation!"
"But please come again sometime!"
"These are imported from Fawn, where the womenfolk are skilled at making strong cloth."
"Perhaps thou canst return with more companions, for thou hast not room to carry what thou desirest to purchase!"
"I would let thee have the goods for free, as I am sure that thou art a trustworthy person."
"But the shop's owner is a stern man, and very strict."
"But thou dost not have the coins to pay for thy purchase! Next time, thou shouldst count thy coins first."
"Dost thou wish to purchase anything else?"
"Thou hast better not visit this shop too often, or we shall lose all our money!"
"Thou hast bargained me to a bitter price, but then, I do not own this store!"
"Well, no one else in town is spending coins, so I must reluctantly accept thine offer."
"Believe me, I am allowing thee a fantastic price. Please do not tell anyone!"
"Thou must be poor, if thou must bargain me down so low. Very well, I shall have pity on thee."
"I think thou hast talked me into a price that is too low..."
"But I do not care. Hast thou noticed how beautiful the sunsets have been lately?"
"'Tis a good price, and a great value."
"As I always say, one must pay high prices to obtain high quality."
"Thou shouldst not jest with me. Simply because I'm only a Mundane doth not mean that thou canst waste my time."
"But we had an agreement!"
"Leave me alone, mage. I am but a little girl."
"I know what thou art, Bane of Chaos. That body is but a shell that thou dost wear."
"I can escape thee! My powers dwarf thine..."
"Thy powers have dwindled due to thine imprisonment. Thou art no match for me, now..."
"What dost thou wish, felon?"
"Perhaps another time, then."
"This is not Moonshade, felon. My prices are fixed... Take them or leave."
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"May it nourish thee, felon."
"Thou canst not handle so much, felon."
"As thou dost not have the guilders to pay me, I am afraid thou shalt go hungry, felon."
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"What dost thou care to buy, felon?"
"Perhaps another time, then."
"Pay or leave."
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"Enjoy thy purchase, felon."
"Thou canst not handle so much, felon."
"Since thou dost not have the guilders to pay me, I am afraid thou wilt have to suffer, felon."
"Dost thou wish another purchase?"
"Some other time then."
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"I am sorry, but I must make a living."
"Thou dost not have the monetari to pay me."
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Remember me, if thou dost ever need any more furs!"
"'Tis hard to offer lower prices these days. The Goblins have hurt everyone's business."
"Take care that thou dost not seek to play me for the fool!"
"I will not deal with dishonorable people! Be gone!"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"What dost thou take me for, a bear?! I am not that witless!"
"What coin wilt thou pay with?"
"In which circle of magic art thou interested?"
"What spell art thou interested in buying?"
"If that is what thou dost wish..."
"The spell is thine."
"Thou dost not have a spellbook."
"I believe thou dost already have that spell."
"Another spell perhaps?"
"Thou art a shrewd and crafty bargainer, to convince me to accept this price..."
"Art thou certain thou hast not cast a dweomer upon me? I usually do not lower my prices so."
"'Tis truly amazing... thou hast a facile tongue to convince me to lower my price by so much."
"'Tis lower than I expected... but I shall agree to this price."
"Thou art very good at bargaining. I will accept this price."
"I see." *"Very well, I will agree to this price even though 'tis lower than I did expect."
"Hmm..." ~"I suppose one must accept such a price -- though it could have been higher."
"'Tis not such an indecent offer." ~"I accept."
"I will accept this price." ~"I can always use the extra funds for research."
"Very well." *"I accept thine offer!"
"It hath been a pleasure!" *"I will accept thine offer."
"Yes..."*"'Tis a very good price."
"Pray, resolve thy mind!"
"Dost thou waste the time of other mages as well?"
"Thou art most rude to renege on an offer!"
"Let me think... ah, that will be 300 filari."
"Ah, er... thou art right, my dear!"
"Ah, thou art correct, daughter..."
"Father! Watch thy tongue!"
"But, dear... he is a customer..."
"'Tis rude of thee, father, to discuss such matters in public!"
"FATHER!!!"
"'Twould appear thou dost not have enough money for that..."
"Dost thou desire another purchase?"
"Troublesome are the times that force me to agree to such bargains!"
"Ah... My prices are fair here. Fair indeed."
"Thou art a rogue! I would not believe mine ears if I were told I had sold goods at this price!"
"Most fair, if I do say so myself."
"Hmmm... In these trying times, I must charge steep prices or become a pauper."
"What? I thought we had an agreement."
"Thou hast sorely disappointed me. What of our bargain?"
"Is this honorable? What of our agreement?"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"Why, if I accepted such a price, I would have to close my shop and move away!"
"I cannot heal this infection! Thou must go to Harnna with the Varo leaves!"
"I did already give thee all the Varo leaves that I have! Thou must go to Harnna to heal thine infection!"
"Didst thou lose the leaves I did give thee?"
"Very well, take five more of the Varo leaves and go thou quickly to Harnna!"
"Good. Go to Harnna! Quickly now!"
"I charge 50 filari to use my knowledge of herbs to attempt to heal. Dost thou agree to pay?"
"Thou dost not have the filari to pay me!"
"Who is in need of healing? I will do what I can."
"As thou dost wish."
"I have done all that I can."
"Thou art unwounded!"
"Thou art poisoned! I believe that I can cure such a simple venom."
"Whom dost thou wish to heal?"
"I am afraid thou dost not have enough to pay for this..."
"Dost thou desire another purchase?"
"Thou hast a good eye for a bargain..."
"I would never agree to such a price, if times were not so bad!"
"My prices are reasonable, given my limited supply."
"Thou couldst talk a beggar out of his begging bowl! I cannot believe I have agreed to such a price!"
"A fair deal..."
"I fear that the storms have driven my prices up. I have no choice unless I wish to starve."
"Thou canst not change thy mind! Thou didst agree!"
"What of our bargain? I thought better of thee..."
"Where is thine honor? What of our agreement?"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"To barter coins, I ask for a small fee of the money exchanged. Dost thou accept?"
"What coinage dost thou desire?"
"What dost thou care to exchange for monetari?"
"Very well... perhaps another time."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 4 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 2 gold coins thou hast."
"I can give thee 10 monetari for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"I can give thee 25 monetari for every gem thou dost have."
"I can give thee 100 monetari for any piece of jewelry thou hast."
"Dost thou find the rate acceptable?"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"'Tis done!"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"What dost thou care to exchange for guilders?"
"Very well... perhaps another time."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 4 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 2 gold coins thou hast."
"I can give thee 30 guilders for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"I can give thee 75 guilders for every gem thou dost have."
"I can give thee 300 guilders for any piece of jewelry thou hast."
"Dost thou find the rate acceptable?"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"'Tis done!"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"What dost thou care to exchange for filari?"
"Very well... perhaps another time."
"I can give thee 4 filari for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 4 filari for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 2 filari for every 1 gold coin thou hast."
"I can give thee 40 filari for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"I can give thee 100 filari for every gem thou dost have."
"I can give thee 400 filari for any piece of jewelry thou hast."
"Dost thou find the rate acceptable?"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"'Tis done!"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"What dost thou care to exchange for gold?"
"Very well... perhaps another time."
"I can give thee 2 gold coins for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 2 gold coins for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 gold coin for every 2 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 20 gold coins for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"I can give thee 50 gold coins for every gem thou dost have."
"I can give thee 200 gold coins for any piece of jewelry thou hast."
"Dost thou find the rate acceptable?"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"'Tis done!"
"Perhaps another time then..."
"Dost thou care to exchange more coins?"
"If that is what thou dost desire..."
"Perhaps another time, then."
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"We have plenty, if thou dost change thy mind!"
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Do not tell Argus... He'll think his mother hath gone soft in the head for giving thee a price like this."
"It hath been quite a while since I was so defeated!"
"To hear thee tell it, thou hast never been defeated, mother!"
"We offer honest prices here at the Sleeping Bull!"
"I would quickly have to beg if I offered such prices every day!"
"Fair enough, if I do say so myself."
"I shall never make a profit with customers like thee..."
"We try only to please! Tell thy friends about the Sleeping Bull!"
"If the suppliers ever come, I won't have to charge such high prices."
"I must have misunderstood. I thought we had an agreement."
"I have no time for this!"
"Rhys Fletcher, a master bowman on an urgent mission for his king, desperately needed to find a hidden mountain pass."
"While searching for the pass he came upon three mystics who were standing alongside the trail."
"One mystic wore a black sash while the other two had brown sashes."
"Rhys knew that some mystics were truth-tellers and some were not."
"Rhys thought that if he could figure out if one of the mystics was a truth-teller, he could learn the whereabouts of the hidden pass."
"So he rode up to the mystics and asked, 'Art thou truth-tellers?'"
"How many of these mystics were liars?"
"That is correct!"
"I'm sorry, but that is not the correct answer."
"The earrings, however, are all scattered about in the jewelry box."
"Without looking into the jewelry box, how many earrings would the noblewoman have to take out of the jewelry box to insure a matched pair?"
"Thou art corrcet!"
"Thou art correct!"
"I'm sorry, but that is not the correct answer."
"If only one of us is correct, how many creatures has Longtooth stumped with his riddles?"
"Thou art correct! Longtooth is a great dragon, but he's lousy at riddling!"
"I am sorry, but that is not the correct answer."
"Verily, thou hath a good head upon thy shoulders!"
"I'm sorry, but that is not the correct answer."
"Take thy gem!"
"What dost thou care to buy?"
"Enjoy thy purchase!"
"Thine hands are full!"
"Please leave if thou canst not pay."
"Thou dost not have enough guilders to purchase this..."
"Dost thou care for something else?"
"Please come to see me whenever thou art in Moonshade again."
"I fear that I must charge more, now that my raw materials are so limited."
"'Tis poor form to argue once thou hast agreed on a price!"
"What of our bargain? I had expected better of thee..."
"Leave immediately! Thou dost not treat a Master so in Moonshade!"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"I would rather become a Ranger than accept such an offer!"
"I am carrying many items, some of which may be of use to thee. Wouldst thou care to have these back?"
"Here they are."
"Thy friends will have to help carry these things."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, I will place it at thy feet."
"If thou changest thy mind, thou hast but to return and ask again."
"I can only accept gold coins. I hope that is acceptable with thee."
"In which circle art thou interested?"
"What spell dost thou wish to buy?"
"So be it..."
"'Tis thine!"
"Ask me again when thou dost have a spellbook!"
"Thou dost not have enough gold to buy that spell!"
"Thou dost already have that spell!"
"Wouldst thou care for another spell?"
"Normally I would never accept such an offer, but who do I have to train here? I hope this war ends soon..."
"I have no choice but to accept it at thy price. Assuredly, I have no other offers."
"I will accept thine offer. But I shall deny it to my dying day... I have a reputation to uphold, thou knowest."
"I hope thou dost realize that thou art getting a bargain with this price."
"A decent price."
"How else shall I make money, eh? I will accept this price."
"I accept thine offer!"
"I accept thine offer. Thou hast a fine eye for a bargain!"
"Yes, a good price that is!"
"I am bored, 'tis true. But I do not take kindly to wasting my time!"
"Now thou hast taken all sport out of the deal!"
"Where are thy manners"?!"
"I charge 150 gold to train thee in the use of magic. Dost thou agree?"
"Suit thyself... It is thy loss."
"Thou art not ready to learn yet!"
"Thou dost not have 150 gold! Speak with me when thou dost have the money."
"Thou dost already possess more skill than I could teach thee!"
"No, no! This is not chicken feed that thou dost handle!"
"Slowly, slowly! If thou dost mis-pronounce them, the spell will go awry and thou wilt have wasted the reagents."
"Unleash the spell... NOW!"
"Thou hast potential but thou must pratice, or thou wilt be undone when haste is called for."
"With what coinage dost thou wish to pay?"
"In which circle art thou interested?"
"What spell dost thou wish to buy?"
"So be it..."
"'Tis thine!"
"Find thyself a spellbook before thou dost seek to buy from me again!"
"If thou wilt look, thou wilt find thou dost already have that spell!"
"Wouldst thou care for another spell?"
"Thou dost drive a hard bargain, indeed. But I must accept in order to be able to continue drinking..."
"'Twill hurt, but I have no choice but to accept it at this price."
"I must be a fool for doing this, but I will accept thine offer. Please, do not tell anyone about this..."
"One must have money to drink, eh? I will accept this price."
"Thou dost bargain well, hero. I will accept this price."
"Ummph. Thou art getting a good bargain with this price."
"A decent price."
"One must make a living, must one not? I will accept this price."
"I accept thine offer!"
"I accept thine offer. And did I say how much of a pleasure it is doing business with thee?"
"Yes, a good price that is!"
"Thou didst do this for jest?!"
"I did not enjoy this waste of my time!"
"Do not expect me to be so courteous to thee next time!"
"In a moment, automaton."
"As thou hast aided me in mine experiments, I shall teach thee spells free of charge."
"In which circle of magic art thou interested?"
"What spell dost thou wish to learn?"
"As thou dost wish..."
"Thou dost not have a spellbook! Return to me when thou dost have one."
"I believe thou dost already have that spell."
"Perhaps thou wouldst care to learn another spell?"
"I have many items in my possession which may aid thee in thy journeys. Wouldst thou like them?"
"Here they are."
"Thy companions will have to help thee with this burden."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, I will place it at thy feet."
"If thou changest thy mind, thou hast but to return and ask."
"I charge 30 monetari, and no less, to perform mine healing. Is this acceptable?"
"Thou dost not have the monetari to pay me!"
"Whom dost thou wish to heal?"
"The bodily wounds have been healed."
"Thou seemest quite healthy!"
"Before I can cure this affliction, thou must needs bring me five Varo leaves from Delphynia, the horticulturist in Fawn!"
"Thou art poisoned! Fortunately, the poison can easily be removed from thy body."
"The poisoning hath been healed."
"Some other time, then."
"Whom dost thou wish to heal?"
"I am afraid thou dost not have enough to pay for this..."
"Dost thou desire another purchase?"
"I must be losing my mind to agree to such a price!"
"Thou canst see that my prices are fair..."
"Who would have thought I would lose my mind so young! To accept such a price..."
"A good deal, if I do say so myself."
"I hate charging such prices, but times are hard..."
"But what of our agreement?"
"Why hast thou changed thy mind?"
"I thought thou wert in need of my produce!"
"Wilt thou agree?"
"I am carrying many items, some of which may be of use to thee. Wouldst thou care to have these before I depart?"
"Here they are."
"Thy friends will have to help carry these things."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, I will place it at thy feet."
"If thou changest thy mind, thou hast but to return and ask again."
"I do not allow beggars in here!"
"If thou canst not pay, then thou canst leave!"
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"What can I get ye?"
"Then why'dst thou ask in the first place?"
"How many bottles wouldst thou like?"
"Thou shouldst not travel so heavily burdened -- I do not think that thou canst bear the bottles that thou desirest!"
"I don't allow no beggars in here!"
"If thou canst not pay, then thou canst leave!"
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Shh! Don't let Olon hear what price thou didst pay. He would never let me hear the last of it!"
"Out-bargained by a stranger! What be next, a goblin?"
"Fairest prices thou wilt find hereabouts..."
"I must be going slack-witted, ta offer thee a price like this!"
"Art thou sure thou art not a wizard... Ta talk me into a price such as this?"
"Not bad... Not bad at all."
"If this is the best I can get, I had best take it."
"Thou art tough... like an ol' sailor!"
"Hast thou forgotten already? We had an agreement!"
"Then be gone with thee -- I have no time ta play games."
"Dost thou think me a fool, ta argue with me only ta change thy mind? I shall spread the word about thee in this town, wait and see!"
"Why, if I accepted such a price as this, I may as well sell the inn ta Olon!"
"Sounds good ta me!"
"Dost thou accept?"
"The ice wine is special indeed! I will not tell thee the secret of how it is made, but be assured that it is most flavorful!"
"Dost thou agree?"
"Is the price acceptable?"
"Thou dost not have the guilders to buy that!"
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"If thou sayest a word about this price to anyone, I will deny it!"
"Perhaps I should give this away in the streets, after agreeing to this price!"
"Thou art certainly a fast talker. I will have to watch thee carefully..."
"A good price for such fine wine, eh?"
"I am feeling generous today... Thou art lucky!"
"I shall have to count my fingers after thou dost leave. Thou art a slick bargainer, indeed!"
"Good price. Good wine."
"I shall have no profit today, it seems."
"Thou art a fine one! I thought we had an agreement."
"If thou canst not pay, please leave!"
"Thou dost not have enough monetari to purchase this..."
"Dost thou desire another purchase?"
"I will buy leather goods from thee, if thou dost have any."
"Perhaps later."
"How many suits of leather armour wouldst thou care to part with?"
"How many pairs of leather gloves wouldst thou care to sell?"
"So, how many pairs of leather boots wouldst thou like to sell?"
"Well, how many leather helms wouldst thou care to sell?"
"How many pairs of leather leggings wouldst thou like to sell?"
"If thou dost not want to sell, 'tis fine by me."
"Dost thou wish to sell more items?"
"Thou dost not have anything that I want to buy!"
"Thou shouldst not argue with me only to change thy mind when we have agreed to a firm price!"
"This is not honorable! I do not have time to play games with thee! Begone!"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"I would rather belong to the Bear Command than accept such an offer!"
"As thou dost wish."
"As thou dost wish, love."
"Enjoy thy meal!"
"It would appear thou dost not have enough monetari for that..."
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Ask me again, handsome, if thou dost become... thirsty."
"Dost thou accept?"
"Thou shouldst not travel so heavily burdened -- I do not think that thou canst bear the bottles that thou desirest!"
"Then thy thirst will not be quenched here."
"It seems thou dost not have the funds to pay me..."
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Oh, if I were better at this, perhaps I could make more monetari."
"If thou dost bargain so well as to bring my price this low, perhaps thou art better at other things as well..."
"Ah, my sweet... Thou hast a very quick wit to bargain me so low. Are other parts of thee as well-equipped as thy tongue?"
"A low price, but thou hast bargained well, dost thou not think?"
"Thou didst certainly haggle a good price from me! Thou art naughty..."
"It hath been a pleasure trading with thee! Most men would try to take advantage of my sweet nature and lower my price even further!"
"Ah, my sweet, thou dost know how to make a girl feel well-liked!"
"'Tis sweet of thee to agree to this price, love..."
"Thou art a vindictive woman to argue with me and then change thy mind out of spite!"
"We in Monitor do not forget those who cross us!"
"I do not think I shall be thy friend unless thou dost acquire better manners!"
"Art thou jealous of me to change thy mind so? If so, I am not amused!"
"Oooh! Thou dost infuriate me! Just like a man to lead a poor girl on so!"
"Do not think that I am fooled by thine handsome features! Thou art merely a mean- spirited man, the same as any other!"
"What dost thou say?"
"Didst thou think thou couldst sweet-talk me like any simple country girl and convince me to lower my price?"
"I cannot accept such an offer!"
"Ugh! Thou hast the manners of a man -- if not a goblin, to offer a girl such a pitiful sum!"
"I shall certainly be sad to part with it, but if thou dost claim it, then I must give it to thee."
"Now I shall have to find myself another shield..."
"That is most gracious of thee! Yes, this is my shield which so strangely disappeared during that storm!"
"That is it, goat! Meet me at the List Field! There I shall ram thy words down thy throat!"
"None can take the Test of Knighthood without the permission of the Lord of Monitor. Dost thou seek my permission?"
"Very well. Shmed will ask thee the password. Tell him this --"
"'Courage is the Soul of Life.'"
"Do not take the Test before thou art ready, strange warrior. But do not let fear shake thy resolve."
"What coins wilt thou pay me with?"
"In which circle art thou interested?"
"What spell dost thou wish to buy?"
"As thou wishest..."
"Thou dost not have a spellbook."
"Thou dost already have that spell!"
"Wouldst thou like another spell?"
"Thou art a shrewd and crafty bargainer, to convince me to accept this price..."
"Art thou certain thou hast not cast a dweomer upon me? I usually do not lower my prices so."
"'Tis truly amazing... thou hast a facile tongue to make me lower my price by so much."
"'Tis lower than I expected... but I shall agree to this price."
"Thou art very good at bargaining. I will accept this price."
"I see." *"Very well, I will agree to this price even though 'tis lower than I did wish."
"Hmm..." ~"I suppose one must accept such a price -- though it could have been higher."
"'Tis not such an indecent offer." ~"I accept."
"I will accept this price." ~"I can always use the extra funds for research."
"Very well." *"I accept thine offer!"
"It hath been a pleasure!" *"I will accept thine offer."
"Yes..."*"'Tis a very good price."
"Pray, settle thy mind!"
"Dost thou waste the time of other mages as well?"
"Thou art most rude to renege on an offer!"
"I will accept only guilders in exchange for teaching thee spells."
"In which circle art thou interested?"
"What spell dost thou wish to purchase?"
"As thou wishest..."
"Thou dost need a spellbook!"
"Thou dost already have that spell!"
"Perhaps another spell?"
"Thou dost bargain well, my friend."
"It pains me to agree... But what else can I do?"
"I must be spending too much time speaking with the dead. I cannot believe that I am agreeing to this!"
"I have little enough business these days. I shall have to accept."
"Thou hast a talent for bargaining. I will accept this price."
"I should retire from magery. I am losing mine edge."
"A modest amount. Not bad..."
"There is simply no profit in selling spells..."
"I accept thine offer!"
"It is a pleasure doing business with thee!"
"Thou art most generous! I accept."
"Then why didst thou go to such trouble?!"
"I shall remember this outrage!"
"All this time spent for nothing?! Thou art mad!"
"The cost is 12 guilders per person. Wouldst thou like a room for the night?"
"Here is thy key."
"'Tis the northwest corner room."
"Then thou canst not stay at the inn. In these hard times, I cannot afford to keep thee and thy companions for free."
"Thou hast not enough guilders for my rooms."
"Another time..."
"Thou dost not know what thou art missing..."
"Thou dost not have enough money for that..."
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"If thou dost change thy mind, ask me again!"
"The mead Rocco imports is sweetly flavored with the honey of bees raised in the mountain highlands."
"Thou canst not carry thy drink!"
"Then thy thirst must be quenched by well water, I'm afraid."
"It seems thou dost not have the funds to pay me... Hast thou considered drinking from the public well?"
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Rocco would have me scrapped for lowering my prices like this. Please do not tell him..."
"Rocco would never have been out-bargained so!"
"The Blue Boar doth have the finest prices, eh?"
"Today hath gone well, so I will be generous. On another day thou mayest not be so lucky!"
"Perhaps it is a human trait... To bargain so well."
"Even Rocco would consider this a fair deal..."
"We shall not profit this way..."
"Good service and fair prices is what hath made the Blue Boar famous!"
"Thou art a fine person!"
"If times were not so bad, our prices would be far lower..."
"I thought thou didst agree to that price!"
"Take thy slick ways elsewhere then! I have more important things to do!"
"Be gone... Before I fetch Rocco to break thy thick head for thee!"
"Thou must think me witless!"
"Thou dost have more than one! How many art thou willing to sell?"
"There. 'Tis done!"
"But thou said thou wouldst sell the Stoneheart!"
"There. 'Tis done!"
"Wilt thou accept?"
"How doth that sound?"
"Dost thou agree?"
"Is the price acceptable?"
"What dost thou say?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"I do not give my merchandise away!"
"I am sorry, but thou dost not have enough guilders to purchase this!"
"Dost thou desire another purchase?"
"Dost thou accept?"
"Dost thou find this price acceptable?"
"Dost thou agree?"
"Is the price acceptable?"
"Wilt thou accept this price?"
"How many wouldst thou like?"
"I do not give my merchandise away! Thou dost not have the guilders to purchase this!"
"Dost thou desire another purchase?"
"Wilt thou buy?"
"Wilt thou take it?"
"Dost thou agree?"
"Dost thou accept the price?"
"Is the price acceptable?"
"Wilt thou agree to this price?"
"I do not give my merchandise away!"
"I am sorry, but thou dost not have enough guilders to purchase this!"
"Dost thou wish something else?"
"I shall never live this down, if thou dost tell anyone..."
"It is rare to find one who trades as well as thee..."
"Would that I had more stock, that I might make a better deal!"
"I offer only the finest merchandise at the fairest prices!"
"It would do me better to tell everyone that thou hadst stolen this from me!"
"I could almost suspect thee of charming me..."
"Thou art a fine customer... Return any time!"
"Thou didst agree! I had not thought that thou wouldst go back on thy word!"
"Is this the way the Avatar deals?"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"If I accepted such a price, I would have to close my shop and begin begging!"
"Perhaps another time, then."
"No one prepares fish better than my Petra!"
"Thou dost not have enough guilders for that!"
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Remember, these wares shall be here when thou dost return!"
"We have a most delectable brew for thee, sweetly flavored with the honey of bees raised in the mountain highlands."
"Thou shouldst not travel so heavily burdened -- I do not think that thou canst bear the bottles that thou desirest!"
"Then thou'rt not drinking here!"
"Thou dost not have the guilders to pay me!"
"Wouldst thou care for more?"
"Please do not mention this to Petra -- she would never forgive me for lowering my prices like this."
"I cannot believe that thou hast out-bargained me so..."
"Thou art too old to be an innkeeper, Rocco! Thy mind grows soft, like an over-ripe fruit."
"Isn't that the truth..."
"Our prices are fair here at the Blue Boar, eh?"
"Yesterday, thou wouldst not have found me in such a generous mood as this. I should starve, if I sold goods at this price every day!"
"Thou hast a bargaining tongue, my friend. It reminds me of when I was thine age..."
"Most fair, if I do say so myself."
"I shall not become a rich man from customers like thee..."
"And let me remind thee that we give service with a smile around here. 'Tis why the Blue Boar Inn is famous throughout these parts."
"Thou art a blessing to this inn, thee and thy companions!"
"In times like these, I must charge high prices or close..."
"What? I thought we had an agreement."
"Then be gone with thee -- I have no time to play games."
"Dost thou think me a fool, to argue with me only to change thy mind? I shall spread the word about thee in this town, wait and see!"
"Petra, come and hear this! The customer jests with me!"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"Why, if I accepted such a price as this, I should have to break Petra into scrap metal and sell her to make ends meet!"
"This person is a lout, my dear. Cast the fool out the door."
"I have many items in my possession which may aid thee. Wouldst thou like to have them?"
"Here they are."
"Thy companions will have to help thee carry some of these things."
"Thou art encumbered like a pack mule!"
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, it shall go at thy feet."
"If that is what thou dost want, so be it."
"I am carrying many items, some of which may be of use to thee. Wouldst thou care to have these back?"
"Here they are."
"Thy friends will have to help carry these things."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, I will place it at thy feet."
"If thou changest thy mind, thou hast but to return and ask again."
"Thank thee, Avatar! Thank thee for returning to me the Comb of Beauty. Take this key..."
"...And go to the southeast corner of the Throne Room. Seek the illusionary wall -- it will reveal the path to the treasure thou dost seek."
"The key will allow thee to open the gate to the Treasury Room. The armour that I did promise thee is stored there."
"To barter coins, I charge a small fee of the money exchanged. Dost thou agree?"
"What coinage dost thou desire?"
"What dost thou care to exchange for monetari?"
"Thou shouldst not waste my time so! I am a busy man!"
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 4 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 2 gold coins thou hast."
"Dost thou agree to my rate?"
"Please make up thy mind!"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"The coins are thine!"
"Please make up thy mind!"
"Thou wilt find no better rates..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for guilders?"
"Thou shouldst not waste my time so! I am a busy man!"
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 4 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 2 gold coins thou hast."
"Dost thou agree to my rate?"
"Please make up thy mind!"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"The coins are thine!"
"Please make up thy mind!"
"Thou wilt find no better rates..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for filari?"
"Thou shouldst not waste my time so! I am a busy man!"
"I can give thee 4 filari for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 4 filari for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 2 filari for every 1 gold coin thou hast."
"Dost thou agree to my rate?"
"Please make up thy mind!"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"The coins are thine!"
"Please make up thy mind!"
"Thou wilt find no better rates..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for gold?"
"Thou shouldst not waste my time so! I am a busy man!"
"I can give thee 2 gold coins for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 2 gold coins for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 gold coin for every 2 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 20 gold coins for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"Dost thou agree to my rate?"
"Please make up thy mind!"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"The coins are thine!"
"Please make up thy mind!"
"Thou wilt find no better rates..."
"Dost thou wish to exchange more coins?"
"Thou wilt find no other moneychangers with such a low fee as mine!"
"If thou canst not pay, please leave!"
"Thou dost not have enough monetari to purchase this..."
"Dost thou want to buy more armour?"
"What weapon wouldst thou care to purchase?"
"It hath been a pleasure, friend! Enjoy thy purchase!"
"If thou canst not pay, please leave!"
"Thou dost not have enough monetari to purchase this!"
"Dost thou wish to purchase more weapons?"
"I am interested only in buying plate, chain, or scale armour, plate or chain leggings, and great or crested helms."
"What dost thou care to sell, friend?"
"As thou dost wish."
"How many suits of scale armour wouldst thou care to sell?"
"How many suits of chain armour wouldst thou care to sell?"
"How many suits of plate armour wouldst thou care to sell?"
"How many pairs of chain leggings wouldst thou care to sell?"
"And how many pairs of plate leggings wouldst thou care to sell?"
"How many great helms wouldst thou care to sell?"
"How many crested helms wouldst thou care to sell?"
"Thy loss, then."
"Dost thou wish to sell more armour?"
"Thou dost not have anything that I care to purchase!"
"'Tis unwise to change thy mind after agreeing to a firm price!"
"Thou hast no honor! Leave, before I take thine head from thy shoulders!"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"I have many of thy belongings in my possession. Dost thou want them returned?"
"Here they are."
"Thy companions will have to help thee with this burden."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, I will place it on the ground."
"Then I will continue to keep thy belongings for thee. Thou hast but to return and ask for them again."
"Whom dost thou wish to heal?"
"So be it."
"I have healed thee of thy wounds. Rest easy, my friend."
"Thou seemest quite healthy!"
"Ah, this poison I can remedy. A moment... *There, 'tis done. Thou art whole once more."
"How many gems wouldst thou like to sell?"
"Perhaps another time, then..."
"Thou dost not have any gems to sell!"
"Oh, we sell all manner of things. Cloaks, swords..."
"Yes, Master, shovels too. Pitchers and other containers. Cloth and a few weapons. We also sell baked goods."
"Enjoy thy purchase!"
"Thine hands are full!"
"Please leave if thou canst not pay."
"Thou dost not have enough guilders to purchase this..."
"Dost thou care for something else?"
"Thou shouldst not argue with me only to change thy mind when we have agreed to a firm price!"
"This is not honorable! I do not have time to play games with thee! Begone!"
"What dost thou say to this?"
"I would rather belong to the Bear Command than accept such an offer!"
"I accept guilders only!"
"In which circle art thou interested?"
"What spell art thou interested in?"
"Very well..."
"Thou dost not have a spellbook."
"Thou dost already have that spell!"
"Wouldst thou like another spell?"
"I do not know why, but I accept thine offer. Thou dost bargain well, friend."
"'Twill not do my reputation any good, but I accept thine offer."
"If thou dost tell anyone that I accepted such an offer, I will say that thou art a liar."
"I have not had much business of late. I will accept thine offer."
"Thou dost bargain well. I will accept this price."
"I hope thou dost know that thou art getting a good bargain at this price."
"Not bad..."
"Thou canst not fault me for trying to make a profit. I will accept this price."
"I accept thine offer!"
"Thou art a fine customer. Please stop by any time."
"'Tis a fine price by me!"
"Then why didst thou come here?!"
"Thou art an ill-mannered buffoon!"
"I shall remember thy poor manners in the future! Mark my words!"
"I charge 200 gold coins to instruct students in the ways of war. Dost thou agree?"
"I knew thou didst lack Discipline!"
"Whom dost thou wish to train?"
"Thou wilt never be warrior with such weak resolve!"
"Thou art not ready to learn yet!"
"Speak with me again when thou art serious about learning the secrets of combat."
"Thou dost already possess more skill than I could teach thee!"
"I know this feels awkward. Practice with this and thou wilt see no loss of accuracy."
"I still have some of thy worthless belongings. If thou wantest them, thou hadst best take them now."
"Dost thou want such items returned?"
"Here they are."
"Thy companions will have to carry some of these useless things."
"Since thou dost not have enough room for this last item, it will go on the floor."
"If that is what thou wantest, so be it."
"I charge 30 monetari to instruct students in my knowledge of combat. Dost thou agree?"
"Since I have joined thee, I will not ask for mine usual fee!"
"Thou art a lout not to pay me!"
"Whom dost thou wish to train?"
"Very well, but thou shouldst make up thy mind!"
"I do not train myself!"
"Thou art not ready to learn yet!"
"Thou dost not have 30 monetari! Talk to me again when thou canst pay me!"
"Thou dost already possess more skill than I could teach thee!"
"First, let me see thy stance."
"Hmmm... If thou dost hold thy weapon higher, thou wilt have better leverage with which to smash thy foes."
"Secondly, thou shouldst always carry through with thy swing, as it will improve thy chances of recovering to land succeeding blows."
"I do see some improvement in thee!"
"To be called ruler of gargoyles. To respond to Zhelkas. To mean `Iron Helm.'"
"To ask who you are and why you are here."
"To be honored to see you, Avatar of Virtue! To be certain that you are the Hero we have dreamed about."
"To be pleased... To bid you to go to the Pillars of Purity."
"To ask you to prepare yourself in virtue. Then to grasp the Pillar of Fire and let the Test begin..."
"To admit you to the Underground City."
"I charge a small amount of the money exchanged. Dost thou accept?"
"What coinage dost thou want?"
"What dost thou care to exchange for monetari?"
"Thou shouldst do well not to waste my time so in the future! I am an important man!"
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 4 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 monetari for every 2 gold coins thou hast."
"Wilt thou agree to my rate?"
"Couldst thou please decide!?"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"The transaction is done!"
"Couldst thou please make up thy mind!?"
"My rates are the same as every other moneychanger..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for guilders?"
"Thou shouldst do well not to waste my time so in the future! I am an important man!"
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 4 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 3 guilders for every 2 gold coins thou hast."
"Dost thou agree to my rate?"
"Couldst thou please make a decision!?"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"The transaction is done!"
"Couldst thou please make up thy mind!?"
"My rates are the same as every other moneychanger..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for filari?"
"Thou shouldst do well not to waste my time so in the future! I am an important man!"
"I can give thee 4 filari for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 4 filari for for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 2 filari for every 1 gold coin thou hast."
"Dost thou agree to my rate?"
"Couldst thou please make up thy mind!?"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"The transaction is done!"
"Couldst thou please make up thy mind!?"
"My rates are the same as every other moneychanger..."
"Which coin dost thou care to exchange for gold?"
"Thou shouldst do well not to waste my time so in the future! I am an important man!"
"I can give thee 2 gold coins for every 1 monetari thou hast."
"I can give thee 2 gold coins for every 3 guilders thou hast."
"I can give thee 1 gold coin for every 2 filari thou hast."
"I can give thee 20 gold coins for every 1 gold nugget thou hast."
"Dost thou agree to my rate?"
"Couldst thou please decide!?"
"My fee will leave thee with nothing!"
"The transaction is done!"
"Couldst thou please make up thy mind!?"
"My rates are the same as every other moneychanger..."
"Dost thou wish to exchange more coins?"
"Thou wilt find no other moneychangers with such a low fee as mine!"
"I must be near a Serpent Gate for the Amulet of Balance to work."
"It has not yet been a full week. The Amulet of Balance has not fully recharged."
"I must wait another hour."
"Up or down?"
"I cannot allow thee to throw away thy life! Thou must live to ensure Britannia's safety!"
"I cannot live with the shame of the deaths I have caused... If I can redeem myself by becoming the required martyr, so be it!"
"Let it be said that Sir Dupre died bravely!"
"Dost thou not see? Red, green and yellow -- and we have observed their properties. Now we can report to Gustacio."
"What else didst thou see in the Knight's Test?"
"Art thou certain of thy facts?"
"Didst thou fight a dragon as well? She is full of jests."
"Listen to his tales -- I think that he is attracted to thee, Shazzana."
"Be still, Luther -- I think something strange is happening. Tell me more of what thou didst see..."
"Knights, have you been listening? Our new warrior hath had a terrible experience..."
"I'm sure there is an explanation for everything."
"This time, I think thou art wrong, Spektor! What else didst thou see in the dungeon?"
"There must be something wrong..."
"Caladin is already deceased!"
"'Tis time for thy banquet, Avatar. Thou shouldst make haste."
"I shall see thee at the Banquet Hall, Avatar. It is in the south part of town."
"Forgive me, Avatar. I must prepare for thy banquet."
"Enough, arrogant fool! Thou canst not kill a Xenkan Monk!"
"Stand thou in awe of my true power... Let there be PEACE!"
"We have restored life to thy flesh, as promised, Hero from Another World. Now thou must continue thy quest."
"We know not for certain from where thou wilt continue..."
"I am the Lizard King. I can do anything."
"Avatar! Release thou me from this vile cell!"
"Some fell sorcery brought me here and nothing I do can unlock the door. Release me and together we shall find the key to this mystery!"
"Avatar! Save me!"
"Failure in NowSettleDownBoys() because we could not find the tournament door."
"Failure in Brendan2Usable(_Action, $Temp1Flag) because we //$ couldn't find the wall at the top of the stairs."
"Failure in Brendan2Usable(_Action, $Temp2Flag) because we //$ couldn't find the door."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Polymorph) because we couldn't find the door."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Polymorph) because we couldn't pop a path egg next to the door."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Talking) because we couldn't find the door."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Path_Failure) because we failed in our pathfind."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Pathfind1) because we couldn't find the guard of the list fields."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Pathfind2) because we couldn't find the door."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Pathfind2) because we failed in our pop of a path egg."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Action, not $Temp1Flag) because //$ we were unable to find the guard."
"Failure in BrendanUsable(_Path_Success) because we couldn't find the door."
"Failure in CleanUpTournament() because we couldn't pop an item into the student's inventory."
"Failure in CleanUpTournament() because we couldn't find the guard."
"Failure in StartTournament() because we couldn't find the chest."
"Failure in StartTournament() because we couldn't push an item into the ethereal void."
"Failure in StartTournament() because we couldn't pop an item into the chest."
"Failure in ContStartOfTournament() because we couldn't find the door."
"Failure in ContStartOfTournament() because we couldn't find the guard."
"Failure in Brendan2Usable(_Path_Failure) because we failed in our pathfind."
"Failure in Brendan2Usable(_Action) because we couldn't find the guard that is supposedly pathfinding to the door."
"Well, I seem to have misplaced thy belongings. Mine apologies. As a favor to thee, I shall let thee keep what thou dost have right now."
"Thou dost not have enough experience. Come back when thou art more knowledgeable of the world!"
"Thou dost not have enough money."
"Thou art already as proficient as I. Thou mightest consider consulting one of the other trainers that specialize in other areas."
"I will train thee now."
"Thou dost not have enough experience. Come back when thou art more knowledgeable of the world!"
"Thou dost not have enough money."
"Thou art already as proficient as I. Thou mightest consider consulting one of the other trainers that specialize in other areas."
"I will train thee now."
"Thou dost not have enough experience. Come back when thou art more knowledgeable of the world!"
"Thou dost not have enough money."
"Thou art already as proficient as I. Thou mightest consider consulting one of the other trainers that specialize in other areas."
"I will train thee now."
"Thou dost not have enough experience. Come back when thou art more knowledgeable of the world!"
"Thou dost not have enough money."
"Thou art already as proficient as I. Thou mightest consider consulting one of the other trainers that specialize in other areas."
"I will train thee now."
"What weapon dost thou favor?"
"Indeed. If that's what thou wantest.... Best of luck to ya."
"Take care with that blade. 'Tis sharp."
"Be thou careful with that blade."
"Only a coward fights from a distance, not that I be referring to thee or nothing."
"Aaahh, a fine weapon a war hammer is. There's nothing quite like the feeling of whacking someone with a mallet."
"A respectable weapon that is. Leaves quite a mess, though."
"Squeamish at the sight of blood, are ya? The morning star is the true warrior's mace."
"Thou knowest thy weapons well."
"Sweet is the sight of a battle axe swinging in the pitch of battle."
"Lovely is the sound of bone crunching under its mighty arc."
"All right. If thou'lt follow me, then."
"Thou hast beaten me. I am impressed."
"Quite amazing. I have been beaten by thee! Perhaps it is time for the teacher to learn from the student."
"A good showing! Thou hast gotten lucky and bested me! Perhaps it is time for the master to learn from his student!!!"
"Thou hast gotten lucky and bested me! Do not consider this the image of the wilds. The goblins are fierce."
"Thou hast been beaten by my blade. Remember this day, and learn."
"Thou hast been beaten, as was expected. Though thou art insignificant, try to remember the lessons I have taught thee this day."
"Thou made a good showing, but fell to my superior skill in the end. With more experience, thou wilt make a fine warrior."
"I have overwhelmed thee with sheer strength. Learn from this lesson, my friend."
"Thou hast lost this match."
"Hah, I have bested thee. Away with thee!"
"Thou hast been beaten in a fair spar. Perhaps now thou wilt be more humble."
"Thou hast lost to my prowess."
"I have beaten thee!"
"I wouldn't have believed it... thou didst beat me... in a fair fight..."
"I thank thee, Captain Voldin."
"Oh... why, yes... of course. Make it so."
"Both sides have stated their facts, and called their witnesses. Let it not be said that there is no justice in Fawn!"
"Free them at once!"
"The true criminals are Priestess Kylista and Great Captain Voldin, who have conspired to convict this innocent man!"
"Such offense to Beauty cannot go unpunished... The stain of their presence must be washed away with their blood."
"We have found the real traitors!"
"What is this all about, Captain Jorvin?"
"Now we know the truth about this town..."
"I have grave news, dearest Lady. There have been foul deeds done in this Temple!"
"Voldin and Kylista have played us all for fools! And we have followed blindly along..."
"Silence, chit! What dost thou know of these matters?"
"Delin, take thy daughter in hand! She speaks out of turn."
"Then the outcome of the trial would not change, say, if I moved those prayer levers...?"
"Lady Yelinda, wouldst thou please call once again upon the Oracle, for its decision?"
"What can it hurt, Kylista, to speak again to the great Oracle?"
"Kylista and Voldin have defiled these proceedings! False evidence hath been offered! This trial is a farce!"
"What doth this mean? The verdict hath changed..."
"We are betrayed! Take Kylista from my sight! I shall deal with her perfidy later..."
"We are betrayed! Take them from my sight! I shall deal with their perfidy later..."
"Here is the Crystal Rose of Love..."
"We have captured the falsehearted traitor, Lady Yelinda! Kylista is in chains, and Great Captain Voldin hath been found dead..."
"We have captured the falsehearted traitors, Lady Yelinda! Kylista and Voldin are in chains."
"Thou hast acted correctly, Jorvin -- the Oracle hath just denounced them..."
"The Priestess of Beauty hath confessed to me that she and Great Captain Voldin were united in an evil conspiracy."
"I did mistrust thy words previously, Alyssand, but now that Kylista hath confessed... I know not what to believe."
"Such perfidy makes my blood run cold. Have the Priestess jailed until I decide what fate she deserves!"
"As for Voldin's death -- that saves me the trouble of having him executed. Praise the deed!"
"Such perfidy makes my blood run cold. Have the traitors jailed until I decide what fate they deserve!"
"Worse yet, he doth admit allegiance to that archfiend, Beast British!"
"Where is the Priestess of Beauty? And where is Great Captain Voldin?"
"Um... I am not sure, thy Ladyship. Nor is Jorvin to be found."
"It is most improper that neither Voldin nor Kylista are here... But I shall not have justice detained."
"I shall continue in Kylista's place..."
"Lady Yelinda, as thou dost rule this city, dost thou wish to conduct the questioning?"
"I fear that the witnesses might be tempted to spare my sensibilities, instead of reciting the bare facts."
"Wouldst thou wish one of thy Councillors to act in thy stead?"
"Let it be so! As most senior of my Councillors, Voldin always doth have my best interests at heart."
"All hail the Lady Yelinda, who hath condescended to conduct this portion of the trial in person."
"It would be my pleasure to act on the Lady's behalf."
"We shall now hear the evidence against the traitor."
"For the purpose of this trial, it hath been necessary to admit certain disreputable characters into the city --"
"Namely, those who belong to the organization called The Fellowship, which doth dare to preach contrary to Beauty."
"I would remind our Fellowship guests that they are here on sufferance, and that they should mind their manners."
"We shall behave ourselves, milord. The Fellowship is an enlightened brotherhood, not a group to be feared."
"We shall see..."
"Excuse me, Great Lady, but I must address a point of order."
"Since The Fellowship troublemakers were so disagreeable in our earlier meeting, they have been excluded from this session of the trial."
"I call the Lady Yelinda to witness before the Oracle."
"I yield the floor to Priestess Kylista..."
"Whom wouldst thou care to call before the Oracle?"
"Thou hast not even called one person... No doubt thy trust in the Oracle's perception will be rewarded."
"Thou hast called but one person... No doubt thy trust in the Oracle's perception will be rewarded."
"So few hast thou called... No doubt thy trust in the Oracle's perception will be rewarded."
"I yield the floor to Her Graciousness, the Lady Yelinda..."
"Dost thou want to join?"
"Then thou shouldst go immediately to seek Batlin."
"Oh. Well, perhaps thou canst become enlightened another time."
"The wounds have been healed."
"Thou seemest quite healthy!"
"The wounds have been healed."
"That individual doth not need curing!"
"Breath doth return to the body. Thy comrade is alive!"
"Alas, I cannot save thy friend. I will provide a proper burial. Thou must go on and continue with thine own life."
"Which of you wishes to train?"
"One of you wishes to train?"
"Which of you wishes to train?"
"Perhaps at a later time."
"To be agreeable?"
"According to Erstam's book, how many spells are available in the Ninth Circle of Magic?"
"How many different materials can armour be made from?"
"How many beasts are discussed in the Bestiary in Erstam's book?"
"How many different types of Reagents doth Erstam write about?"
"How many reagents are required to cast the @Mass Death@ spell?"
"How many times must ginseng be boiled before it becomes syrup?"
"In what Circle of Magic doth the Create Automata spell appear?"
"For how many reasons did Erstam put down the history of the land in writing?"
"How many characters are there in Ophidian writing?"
"In Erstam's book, the section entitled @Other Landmarks@ covers how many areas?"
"How many cities were established in the Serpent Isle?"
"How many forces, when combined, form the Principles of Balance?"
"How many clans divide the city of Monitor?"
"How many types of weapons are discussed in Erstam's book?"
"How many Words of Power are there?"
"I am not yet convinced..."
"Thou art so encumbered! Perhaps one of thy friends might be willing to carry this?"
"Thou art so encumbered! Let me give some of this to thy friends."
"Since thou art so encumbered, I shall set this upon the ground."
"Since not one of you can hold another, I shall place this last remaining one upon the ground."
"I've enjoyed jawin' with ye, mate, but I'd better be back to me duties..."
"This isn't the place for a long talk, mate. Meet me later, back at the tavern, and we'll talk more."
"Better we talk in the morning, mate. As for right now, I'm goin' back to sleep..."
"I must be getting back to work now. But it hath been nice talking with thee."
"If thou wert to be at the Blue Boar Inn at 10 tonight, I could discuss these things further with thee..."
"It is getting late! I have truly enjoyed our talk, but I think I shall eat my dinner now."
"I must return to my duties. These crops will not wait!"
"Pardon me, but my dinner is wasting. We can talk again later."
"I must get some sleep! Thou shouldst return tomorrow..."
"I must return to my duties..."
"I am sorry, but my dinner is waiting. We can talk again later."
"I need rest! Return tomorrow..."
"Long ago, there lived a maid As fair as a summer morn."
"She loved a King, a noble king, Who left her all forlorn."
"He pledged his heart and sailed away Never to return again."
"Her heart did break and fade away Into the icy northern wind."
"I will tell thee a tale of vaulting ambition laid low by the hands of time."
"Far away, near where the sun doth rise, there once a mountain stood."
"It called itself the pinnacle of earth, until the earthquakes came."
"And now that mountain, tried by fire and ice, lies crushed beneath another's dream."
"Far away, in the cold white north, There lives a vicious band."
"With soft grey fur, they walk about On two legs just like men."
"Do not fool thyself to think that they Might be a pretty robe."
"For if thou dost go a-hunting them, Thou shalt never return home again."
"Within the great wide forest, Hard on the snow and ice, There dwells a man called the Forest Master Who rules both plant and beast."
"His power, by cruel thieves, One day from him was stolen. And now the one great tree doth wilt Without his tender care."
"So if thou dost seek favors, From the Forest Master fierce, Thou shouldst be prepared to return to him The Orb of Elerion."
"Walk carefully when thou art dreaming. Never stray too far. For there is one who is waiting To trap thy very soul."
"See the balance slipping In the fight between ill and good. Thou shalt walk the beam To find the treasure thou seekest."
"Once this land was ruled by kings, One old, one young, but friends true."
"Then one day, the young king sailed away, And the old king lost his mind."
"Plagued by goblins and treachery vile, The old king went too far."
"He killed those he would protect, And threw himself from the White Dragon tower."
"If thou didst enjoy my song, I would appreciate a small contribution to my room and board."
"Perhaps some other time..."
"Very well... then I shall play no more."
"We must plan for every eventuality, Avatar. Should I not be able to remain here, I shall await thee on Monk Isle."
"If I cannot remain here, I shall go home to the inn. Thou canst always find me there."
"I shall attempt to wait for thee here, but if I cannot, where shall we meet?"
"Then in an emergency, I shall find thee at the Town Hall in Monitor."
"If I cannot remain here, we shall meet at the Blue Boar Inn in Moonshade."
"If I cannot stay here, I shall travel to Fawn. We can meet at the tavern there."
"Let us meet at the abbey on Monk Isle, should I be forced to wander from this spot. No doubt Thoxa can fetch me there."
